1. Bioengineered. 2022 Jul-Dec;13(7-12):14974-14986. doi: 
10.1080/21655979.2023.2185434.

Deciphering cell-cell interactions and communication in the tumor 
microenvironment and unraveling intratumoral genetic heterogeneity via 
single-cell genomic sequencing.

Cao YH(1), Ding J(2), Tang QH(3), Zhang J(4), Huang ZY(5), Tang XM(5), Liu 
JB(6), Ma YS(7), Fu D(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory, Nantong Traditional Chinese Medicine Hospital, 
Affiliated Nantong Traditional Chinese Medicine Hospital of Nantong University, 
Nantong, Jiangsu, China.
(2)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Jingjiang Traditional Chinese Medicine 
Hospital, Jingjiang, Jiangsu, China.
(3)Hunan Key Laboratory for Conservation and Utilization of Biological Resources 
in the Nanyue Mountainous Region and College of Life Sciences and Environment, 
Hengyang Normal University, Hengyang, Hunan, China.
(4)Department of Immunology, School of Medicine, Nantong University, Nantong, 
Jiangsu, China.
(5)Institute of Pancreatic Diseases, Ruijin Hospital, Shanghai Jiaotong 
University School of Medicine, Shanghai, Huangpu, China.
(6)Institute of Oncology, Affiliated Tumor Hospital of Nantong University, 
Nantong, Jiangsu, China.
(7)Cancer Institute, Longhua Hospital, Shanghai University of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Shanghai, Xuhui, China.

A tumor's heterogeneity has important implications in terms of its clonal 
origin, progression, stemness, and drug resistance. Therefore, because of its 
significance in treatment, it is important to understand the gene expression 
pattern of a single cell, track gene expression or mutation in heterogeneous 
cells, evaluate the clonal origin of cancer cells, and determine the selective 
evolution of different subpopulations of cancer cells. Researchers are able to 
trace a cell's mutation and identify different types of tumor cells by measuring 
the whole transcriptome with single-cell sequencing (scRNA-seq). This technology 
provides a better understanding of the molecular mechanisms driving tumor growth 
than that offered by traditional RNA sequencing methods. In addition, it has 
revealed changes in the mutations and functions of somatic cells as a tumor 
evolves; it has also clarified immune cell infiltration and activation. Research 
on scRNA-seq technology has recently advanced significantly, suggesting new 
strategies for the treatment of cancer. In short, cancer researchers have become 
increasingly dependent on scRNA-seq. This paper reviews the development, 
detection principles, and processes of scRNA-seq technology and their 
application in tumor research. It also considers potential clinical 
applications.

Plain Language Summary: Heterogeneity helps us determine the clonal origin, 
progression, and drug resistance of cancer cells.The gene expression pattern of 
a single cell has important biological significance.scRNA-seq enables a better 
understanding of cancer cells’ molecular mechanisms.scRNA-seq provides 
information about the entirety of a tumor from what we can learn about a single 
cell.

DOI: 10.1080/21655979.2023.2185434
PMCID: PMC10234225
PMID: 37105769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported 
by the author(s).