1. Front Oncol. 2023 Jan 20;12:1082927. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2022.1082927.
eCollection  2022.

HROP68: A rare case of medullary pancreatic cancer-characterization and 
chemosensitivity of the first patient-derived cell line.

von den Driesch J(1), Flöttmann J(1), Prall F(2), Mullins CS(1), Linnebacher 
M(1), Bürtin F(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinic of General, Visceral, Vascular and Transplantation Surgery, University 
Medical Center Rostock, University of Rostock, Rostock, Germany.
(2)Institute of Pathology, University Medical Center Rostock, University of 
Rostock, Rostock, Germany.

INTRODUCTION: Medullary pancreatic carcinoma (MPC) is a rare subtype of 
pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. MPCs represent less than 1% of all pancreatic 
cancers, and, with only 26 cases in the literature, knowledge regarding drug 
response and treatment outcome is very limited.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: We present the case of a 64-year-old male patient with MPC 
who was treated by left pancreatic resection and adjuvant chemotherapy. Due to 
local recurrence, the patient underwent intended curative reoperation. From both 
surgical specimens, patient-derived xenografts (PDXs) and, from the recurrence, 
a patient-derived cell line (PDCL) were established. We subsequently performed 
an in-depth characterization of this cell line including phenotypic 
characterization, surface protein expression, growth, and migratory performance 
as well as mutational analysis using whole-exome sequencing (WES). Additionally, 
in vitro drug sensitivity toward the standard-of-care chemotherapeutic regimen 
and selected targeted therapies was evaluated.
RESULTS: The pathological and molecular properties of this rare MPC case 
observed in the patient's tumors are preserved in the corresponding PDX and the 
PDCL of HROP68Tu2. Despite displaying an "immunogenic phenotype" with marked 
T-cell infiltration and a high-level expression of HLA II and Programmed 
death-ligand 1 (PD-L1), molecular analysis revealed microsatellite stability but 
a multitude of mutations affecting KRAS, TP53, KAT6B, FOXG1, RUNX1, and GRIK2 
among others. Furthermore, HROP68Tu2 cells were susceptible toward 5-FU, 
irinotecan, oxaliplatin, gemcitabine, paclitaxel, and erlotinib as single 
agents, but only a moderate synergistic response was seen to the drugs of the 
FOLFIRINOX regimen. Even worse, the drugs of the two combinations gemcitabine 
plus paclitaxel and gemcitabine plus erlotinib showed antagonistic effects. 
Moreover, lapatinib, PRIMA-Met1, and olaparib selected as targeted therapeutics 
according to the mutational profiles and protein expression inhibited HROP68Tu2 
cells' growth.
CONCLUSION: This study illustrates the establishment of the first preclinical 
MPC models as well as the first in-depth characterization of an MPC PDCL. Since 
the scientific and clinical knowledge of this rare pancreatic cancer type is 
very limited, the presented models contribute to a better understanding of MPC 
and might be a valuable tool for the development of future treatment options.

Copyright © 2023 von den Driesch, Flöttmann, Prall, Mullins, Linnebacher and 
Bürtin.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2022.1082927
PMCID: PMC9904236
PMID: 36761421

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.