1. Liver Cancer. 2022 Nov 28;12(3):238-250. doi: 10.1159/000528272. eCollection 
2023 Aug.

IMbrave150: Efficacy and Safety of Atezolizumab plus Bevacizumab versus 
Sorafenib in Patients with Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer Stage B Unresectable 
Hepatocellular Carcinoma: An Exploratory Analysis of the Phase III Study.

Kudo M(1), Finn RS(2), Galle PR(3), Zhu AX(4)(5), Ducreux M(6), Cheng AL(7), 
Ikeda M(8), Tsuchiya K(9), Aoki KI(10), Jia J(11), Lencioni R(12).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Kindai University Faculty of 
Medicine, Osaka, Japan.
(2)Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology and Oncology, Jonsson 
Comprehensive Cancer Center, Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, 
California, USA.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, University Medical Center Mainz, Mainz, 
Germany.
(4)Massachusetts General Hospital Cancer Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.
(5)Jiahui International Cancer Center, Jiahui Health, Shanghai, China.
(6)Department of Medical Oncology, Gustave Roussy Cancer Center, Paris-Saclay 
University, Inserm U1279, Villejuif, France.
(7)Department of Oncology, National Taiwan University Cancer Center and National 
Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.
(8)Department of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Oncology, National Cancer Center 
Hospital East, Kashiwa, Japan.
(9)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Musashino Red Cross Hospital, 
Tokyo, Japan.
(10)Chugai Pharmaceutical Ltd., Tokyo, Japan.
(11)Hoffmann-La Roche Limited, Mississauga, Ontario, Canada.
(12)University of Pisa, Pisa, Italy.

INTRODUCTION: The phase III IMbrave150 study established atezolizumab + 
bevacizumab as standard of care in patients with unresectable hepatocellular 
carcinoma (HCC). This exploratory analysis reports efficacy and safety results 
in patients with baseline Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) stage B disease.
METHODS: Patients with systemic treatment-naive unresectable HCC and Child-Pugh 
class A liver function were randomized 2:1 to receive 1,200 mg of atezolizumab 
plus 15 mg/kg of bevacizumab or 400 mg of sorafenib. Co-primary endpoints were 
overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) per independent review 
facility (IRF)-assessed Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours (RECIST) 
version 1.1 in the BCLC stage B subgroup. Patients in this analysis had BCLC 
stage B disease at baseline per electronic case report form. Secondary efficacy 
endpoints included the objective response rate (ORR) and change in the sum of 
longest diameters (SLD) of target lesions from baseline per IRF RECIST 1.1 and 
modified RECIST (mRECIST) for HCC.
RESULTS: Of 501 enrolled patients, 74 (15%) had BCLC stage B disease at baseline 
(atezolizumab + bevacizumab, n = 49; sorafenib, n = 24). For this group, median 
follow-up was 19.7 months. A trend toward improved OS and PFS per IRF RECIST 1.1 
was observed with atezolizumab + bevacizumab versus sorafenib (OS: hazard ratio 
[HR]: 0.63; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.29, 1.34; PFS: HR: 0.64; 95% CI: 
0.36, 1.12). ORRs per IRF RECIST 1.1 and HCC mRECIST were 43% and 50% with 
atezolizumab + bevacizumab and 26% and 30% with sorafenib, respectively. 
Percentage change in SLD of target lesions from baseline per IRF RECIST 1.1 and 
HCC mRECIST showed durable responses with atezolizumab + bevacizumab treatment. 
Safety data were consistent with known profiles of atezolizumab and bevacizumab, 
as seen in the overall study population.
DISCUSSION/CONCLUSION: Efficacy benefits were observed with atezolizumab + 
bevacizumab in patients with baseline BCLC stage B disease, consistent with the 
intention-to-treat population.

Copyright © 2022 by The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000528272
PMCID: PMC10521324
PMID: 37767068

Conflict of interest statement: Masatoshi Kudo reports the following conflicts 
of interest: honoraria payment to self from Bayer, Chugai Pharmaceutical Co. 
Ltd., Eli Lilly, Eisai, Merck Sharp & Dohme, and Takeda; research funding to the 
institution from AbbVie, Chugai Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., EA Pharma, Eisai, F. 
Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., GE Healthcare, Gilead Sciences, Otsuka, Sumitomo 
Dainippon Pharma, Taiho, and Takeda; Editor-in-Chief of Liver Cancer. Richard S. 
Finn reports the following conflicts of interest: consulting fees to self from 
AstraZeneca, Bayer, CStone Pharmaceuticals, Eisai, Eli Lilly, Exelixis, F. 
Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., Jiangsu Hengrui Pharmaceuticals, Merck, and Pfizer; 
research funding to the institution from Adaptimmune, Bristol Myers Squibb, 
Eisai, Eli Lilly, Merck, Pfizer, and F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd; Editorial Board 
Member of Liver Cancer. Peter R. Galle reports the following conflicts of 
interest: consulting fees to self from Adaptimmune, AstraZeneca, Bayer, Boston 
Scientific, Bristol Myers Squibb, Eisai, Eli Lilly, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., 
Guerbet, Ipsen, Merck Sharp & Dohme, and Sirtex Medical; honoraria payment to 
self from Adaptimmune, AstraZeneca, Bayer, Boston Scientific, Bristol Myers 
Squibb, Eisai, Eli Lilly, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., Guerbet, Ipsen, Merck Sharp 
& Dohme, and Sirtex Medical; advisory fees to self from Adaptimmune, 
AstraZeneca, Bayer, Boston Scientific, Bristol Myers Squibb, Eisai, Eli Lilly, 
F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., Guerbet, Ipsen, Merck Sharp & Dohme, and Sirtex 
Medical; research funding to the institution from Bayer and F. Hoffmann-La Roche 
Ltd. Andrew X. Zhu reports the following conflicts of interest: consulting fees 
to self from Eisai, Eli Lilly, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., and Sanofi-Aventis; 
research funding to the institution from F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. Michel 
Ducreux reports the following conflicts of interest: honoraria, consulting fees, 
or advisory fees to self from Amgen, AstraZeneca, Bayer, Eli Lilly, F. 
Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., Ipsen, Merck Serono, Pierre Fabre, and Servier; speaker 
bureau participation for Amgen, Bayer, Eli Lilly, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., 
Ipsen, and Merck Serono; travel support from Bayer, Eli Lilly, F. Hoffmann-La 
Roche Ltd., Ipsen, Merck Sharp & Dohme, and Servier; research funding to the 
institution from Bayer and F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. Ann-Lii Cheng reports the 
following conflicts of interest: research funding to the institution from F. 
Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. Masafumi Ikeda reports the following conflicts of 
interest: honoraria to self from Bayer, Chugai Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Eisai, 
Eli Lilly, and Takeda; advisory/consulting fees to self from Chugai 
Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Eisai, Eli Lilly, Merck Sharp & Dohme, and Takeda; 
research funding to the institution from Bayer, Bristol Myers Squibb, Chugai 
Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Eisai, Eli Lilly, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., Merck 
Sharp & Dohme, and Takeda. Kaoru Tsuchiya reports the following conflicts of 
interest: advisory/consultancy fees to self from Chugai Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., 
and Eisai; speaker bureau participation for Chugai Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., 
Eisai, Eli Lilly, and Takeda; research funding to the institution from F. 
Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. Ken-ichi Aoki reports the following conflicts of 
interest: employment by Chugai Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. Jing Jia reports the 
following conflicts of interest: employment by F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. 
Riccardo Lencioni reports the following conflicts of interest: 
advisory/consultancy fees to self from AstraZeneca, Bayer, Eisai, and F. 
Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd.; research funding to the institution from F. Hoffmann-La 
Roche Ltd.