1. Front Oncol. 2023 Jan 26;12:1085686. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2022.1085686.
eCollection  2022.

Phytoradiotherapy to enhance cancer treatment outcomes with cannabidiol, bitter 
melon juice, and plant hemoglobin.

Alfonzetti T(1), Moreau M(2), Yasmin-Karim S(3)(4), Ngwa W(2), Avery S(1), Goia 
D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Perelman Center for Advanced Medicine, 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, United States.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology and Molecular Radiation Sciences, Johns 
Hopkins University, Boston, MA, United States.
(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA, United States.
(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, Dana Farber Cancer Institute and Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA, United States.

Despite technological advances in radiation therapy for cancer treatment, many 
patient populations still experience mediocre survival percentages, local 
control, and quality of life. Additionally, much of the world lacks access to 
expensive, modern treatment options. The need for innovative, cost-effective 
solutions that can improve patient treatment outcomes is essential. 
Phytomedicines have been shown to induce apoptotic tumor cell death, diminish 
tumor progression, reduce cancer incidence, alleviate harmful hypoxic 
conditions, and more. While an ample amount of research is available that 
characterizes many phytomedicines as having anti-cancer properties that increase 
tumor cell killing/control and mitigate the harmful side effects of radiation 
damage, little work has been done to investigate the synergistic effect of 
phytoradiotherapy: combining radiation treatment with phytomedicines. In this 
study, a protocol for testing the radiosensitizing effects of phytomedicines was 
validated and used to investigate the well-known plant based medicine 
cannabidiol (CBD) and the lesser-known medicinal fruit Bitter Melon. 
Additionally, based on its high concentration of plant hemoglobin which has been 
shown to abate hypoxia, the African-indigenous Justicia plant was tested in 
pancreatic adenocarcinoma mouse models. The studies reveal that these 
phytomedicines can effectively enhance tumor cell killing, minimize tumor 
growth, and prolong mice survival. There is certainly the need for additional 
research in this regard, however, phytoradiotherapy: the use of phytomedicines 
to enhance radiation therapy treatment outcomes, continues to show potential as 
a promising, innovative way to improve cancer care.

Copyright © 2023 Alfonzetti, Moreau, Yasmin-Karim, Ngwa, Avery and Goia.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2022.1085686
PMCID: PMC9909600
PMID: 36776362

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.