1. Liver Cancer. 2022 Oct 4;12(1):72-84. doi: 10.1159/000527175. eCollection 2023
 Feb.

Tislelizumab in Patients with Previously Treated Advanced Hepatocellular 
Carcinoma (RATIONALE-208): A Multicenter, Non-Randomized, Open-Label, Phase 2 
Trial.

Ren Z(1), Ducreux M(2), Abou-Alfa GK(3), Merle P(4), Fang W(5), Edeline J(6), Li 
Z(7), Wu L(7), Assenat E(8), Hu S(9), Rimassa L(10), Zhang T(11), Blanc JF(12), 
Pan H(13), Ross P(14), Yen CJ(15), Tran A(16), Shao G(17), Bouattour M(18), Chen 
Y(19), Meyer T(20), Hou J(21), Tougeron D(22), Bai Y(23), Hou MM(24), Meng 
Z(25), Wu J(26), Li V(27), Chica-Duque S(28), Cheng AL(29).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hepatic Oncology, Liver Cancer Institute, Zhongshan Hospital, 
Fudan University, and Key Laboratory of Carcinogenesis and Cancer Invasion, 
Ministry of Education, Shanghai, China.
(2)Medical Oncology Department, Gustave Roussy, INSERM U1279, Paris-Saclay 
University, Villejuif, France.
(3)Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, and Weill 
Medical College at Cornell University, New York, New York, USA.
(4)Department of Hepatology, Hospital La Croix-Rousse, Lyon, France.
(5)Department of Medical Oncology, The First Affiliated Hospital Zhejiang 
University, Hangzhou, China.
(6)Department of Medical Oncology, Centre Eugène Marquis, Rennes, France, and 
ARPEGO (Accès à La Recherche Précoce Dans Le Grand-Ouest) Network, Rennes, 
France.
(7)Division of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery, The First Affiliated 
Hospital, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China.
(8)Department of Oncology, CHRU Saint Eloi, Montpellier, France.
(9)Department of Internal Medicine-Oncology, Hubei Cancer Hospital, Wuhan, 
China.
(10)Medical Oncology and Hematology Unit, Department of Biomedical Sciences, 
Humanitas University, Pieve Emanuele (Milan), Italy, Humanitas Cancer Center, 
IRCCS Humanitas Research Hospital, Rozzano, Milan, Italy.
(11)Abdominal Oncology Department, Union Hospital, Tongji Medical College, 
Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China.
(12)Service Hépato-Gastroentérologie et Oncologie Digestive, Groupe Hospitalier 
Sud - Hôpital Haut Lévêque, Bordeaux, France.
(13)Department of Medical Oncology, Sir Run Run Shaw Hospital, Zhejiang 
University, Hangzhou, China.
(14)Department of Gastroenterology, Guy's and St Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust 
and Department of Oncology, King's College Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, 
London, UK.
(15)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine, 
National Cheng Kung University Hospital, Tainan, Taiwan.
(16)Département Digestif, Université Côte d'Azur, Nice, France, and Centre 
Hospitalier Universitaire de Nice, Nice, France, and Centre Méditerranéen de 
Médecine Moléculaire, INSERUM U1065, Université Côte d'Azur, Nice, France.
(17)Department of Radiology, Zhejiang Cancer Hospital, Hangzhou, China.
(18)Department of Digestive Oncology, APHP Hôpitaux Universitaires Paris Nord 
Val de Seine, Hôpital Beaujon, Clichy, France.
(19)Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery, Sun Yat-Sen Memorial Hospital, Sun 
Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou, China.
(20)Academic Department of Oncology, Royal Free Hospital NHS Trust, Pond Street, 
London, UK.
(21)State Key Laboratory of Organ Failure Research, Guangdong Key Laboratory of 
Viral Hepatitis Research, Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical University, 
Guangzhou, China.
(22)Gastroenterology and Hepatology Department, University of Poitiers and 
Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Poitiers University Hospital, 
Poitiers, France.
(23)Department of Gastrointestinal Oncology, Harbin Medical University Cancer 
Hospital, Harbin, China.
(24)Department of Oncology, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Chang Gung University, 
Taoyuan, Taiwan.
(25)Department of Integrative Oncology, Fudan University Shanghai Cancer Center, 
Shanghai, China.
(26)Biostatistics, BeiGene USA, Inc., Ridgefield Park, New Jersey, USA.
(27)Clinical Development, BeiGene (Beijing) Co., Ltd., Beijing, China.
(28)Clinical Development, BeiGene USA, Inc., San Mateo, California, USA.
(29)Department of Oncology, National Taiwan University Cancer Center and 
National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.

INTRODUCTION: Tislelizumab (anti-programmed cell death protein 1 antibody) 
showed preliminary antitumor activity and tolerability in patients with advanced 
solid tumors, including hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). This study aimed to 
assess the efficacy and safety of tislelizumab in patients with previously 
treated advanced HCC.
METHODS: The multiregional phase 2 study RATIONALE-208 examined single-agent 
tislelizumab (200 mg intravenously every 3 weeks) in patients with advanced HCC 
with Child-Pugh A, Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer stage B or C, and who had 
received one or more prior lines of systemic therapy. The primary endpoint was 
objective response rate (ORR), radiologically confirmed per Response Evaluation 
Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 by the Independent Review Committee. Safety 
was assessed in patients who received ≥1 dose of tislelizumab.
RESULTS: Between April 9, 2018, and February 27, 2019, 249 eligible patients 
were enrolled and treated. After a median study follow-up of 12.7 months, ORR 
was 13% (n = 32/249; 95% confidence interval [CI], 9-18), including five 
complete and 27 partial responses. The number of prior lines of therapy did not 
impact ORR (one prior line, 13% [95% CI, 8-20]; two or more prior lines, 13% 
[95% CI, 7-20]). Median duration of response was not reached. The disease 
control rate was 53%, and median overall survival was 13.2 months. Of the 249 
total patients, grade ≥3 treatment-related adverse events were reported in 38 
(15%) patients; the most common was liver transaminase elevations in 10 (4%) 
patients. Treatment-related adverse events led to treatment discontinuation in 
13 (5%) patients or dose delay in 46 (19%) patients. No deaths were attributed 
to the treatment per investigator assessment.
CONCLUSION: Tislelizumab demonstrated durable objective responses, regardless of 
the number of prior lines of therapy, and acceptable tolerability in patients 
with previously treated advanced HCC.

Copyright © 2022 by The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000527175
PMCID: PMC9982342
PMID: 36872927

Conflict of interest statement: Zhenggang Ren reports consulting support from 
AstraZeneca, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., and Merck. Michel Ducreux reports 
research support to the institution from F. Hoffmann-La Roche, Ltd., Merck, 
Keocyt, and Bayer and receives consulting support from AMGEN, F. Hoffmann-La 
Roche Ltd., Ipsen, Merck, MSD, Bayer, BeiGene, Ltd., Hutchinson, AstraZeneca, 
Eli Lilly, Keocyt, and Celgene. Ghassan K. Abou-Alfa reports research support to 
the institution from Arcus, Agios, AstraZeneca, Bayer, BioNTech, BMS, Celgene, 
Flatiron, Genentech/Ltd./F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., Genoscience, Incyte, 
Polaris, Puma, QED, Sillajen, and Yiviva and receives consulting support from 
Agios, Alnylam, AstraZeneca, Autem, Bayer, BeiGene, Ltd., Berry Genomics, Eisai, 
Eli Lilly, Exelixis, Flatiron, Genentech Ltd./F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., 
Genoscience, Helio, Incyte, Ipsen, Legend Biotech, Merck, MINA, QED, Redhill, 
Sillajen, Surface Oncology, Therabionics, Twoxar, Vector, and Yiviva. Philippe 
Merle reports grants from Ipsen and Genosciences and receives advisory board 
fees from F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., BMS, AstraZeneca, Bayer, Eisai, MSD, Ipsen, 
Lilly, and Genosciences. Weijia Fang, Zhiwei Li, Julien Edeline, Lihua Wu, Sheng 
Hu, Tao Zhang, Jean-Frédéric Blanc, Hongming Pan, Chia-Jui Yen, Albert Tran, 
Guoliang Shao, Mohamed Bouattour, Yajin Chen, Jinlin Hou, Yuxian Bai, Ming-Mo 
Hou, and Zhiqiang Meng declare no competing interests. Eric Assenat reports 
research support to the institution from F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. and Bayer and 
receives consulting support from AMGEN, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., Ipsen, Bayer, 
AstraZeneca, and Boston. Lorenza Rimassa reports receiving consulting support 
from Amgen, ArQule, AstraZeneca, Basilea, Bayer, BMS, Celgene, Eisai, Exelixis, 
Genenta, Hengrui, Incyte, Ipsen, IQVIA, Lilly, MSD, Nerviano Medical Sciences, 
F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., Sanofi, Servier, Taiho Oncology, and Zymeworks; 
lecture fees from AbbVie, Amgen, Bayer, Eisai, Gilead, Incyte, Ipsen, Lilly, 
Merck Serono, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., and Sanofi; travel expenses from 
AstraZeneca; and institutional research funding from Agios, ARMO BioSciences, 
AstraZeneca, BeiGene, Ltd., Eisai, Exelixis, Fibrogen, Incyte, Ipsen, Lilly, 
MSD, Nerviano Medical Sciences, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., and Zymeworks. Paul 
Ross reports grants from Bayer and Sanofi. Tim Meyer is supported by the NIHR 
ULCH Biomedical Research Centre. David Tougeron reports receiving consulting 
support from Amgen, AstraZeneca, Bayer, BMS, Ipsen, MSD, Sanofi, Servier, and 
Merck Serono and institutional research funding from AstraZeneca, MSD, F. 
Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., and Ipsen. John Wu reports employment with BeiGene, Ltd. 
Vincent Li reports employment and stocks with BeiGene, Ltd. Sandra Chica-Duque 
reports employment with BeiGene, Ltd., and her immediate family member reports a 
relationship with Turning Point Therapeutics. Ann-Lii Cheng reports and receives 
consulting support from Bristol Myers Squibb, Bayer, Eisai, Ono Pharmaceutical, 
AstraZeneca, Genentech Ltd./F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., MSD, BeiGene, Ltd., 
Exelixis Ltd., Ipsen Innovation, and F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd.