1. Hepatobiliary Surg Nutr. 2024 Feb 1;13(1):56-70. doi: 10.21037/hbsn-22-628.
Epub  2023 Aug 14.

Molecular pathology and protein markers for pancreatic cancer: relevance in 
staging, in adjuvant therapy, in determination of minimal residual disease, and 
follow-up.

Sok CP(1), Polireddy K(1), Kooby DA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA, USA.

The diagnosis and monitoring of disease through the detection of circulating 
protein biomarkers is a growing field in the practice of oncology. The search 
for more effective protein biomarkers to aid in the diagnosis and treatment of 
patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) remains a valuable area of 
study, given the aggressive and often occult nature of this malignancy. Liquid 
biopsies are attractive, as they offer a minimally invasive and cost-effective 
approach when compared to traditional biopsy methods and imaging modalities used 
for diagnosis and surveillance. Carbohydrate antigen (CA) 19-9 is currently the 
most commonly used serum protein biomarker for the diagnosis and monitoring of 
patients with PDAC, but due to its sensitivity and specificity, its utility 
remains limited. In this review, we examine how circulating protein biomarkers 
are used in the diagnosis, prognostication, and surveillance of PDAC. We also 
highlight protein biomarkers that are currently under investigation that have 
the potential to enhance our ability to detect early-stage malignancies, predict 
response to therapy, and monitor for recurrence, but these markers require 
larger prospective validation studies before they can be widely implemented. 
Continued efforts to identify and validate novel biomarkers will be crucial for 
improving the management and outcomes of patients with this challenging disease.

2024 Hepatobiliary Surgery and Nutrition. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21037/hbsn-22-628
PMCID: PMC10839718
PMID: 38322203

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: All authors have 
completed the ICMJE uniform disclosure form (available at 
https://hbsn.amegroups.com/article/view/10.21037/hbsn-22-628/coif). The series 
“Molecular, Protein, and Cellular Markers for HPB Cancers” was commissioned by 
the editorial office without any funding or sponsorship. D.A.K. served as the 
unpaid Guest Editor of the series. The authors have no other conflicts of 
interest to declare.