1. J Cancer Res Ther. 2024 Apr 1;20(3):811-816. doi: 10.4103/jcrt.jcrt_2329_22. 
Epub 2023 May 2.

INSM1 expression in neuroendocrine tumors in a tertiary care hospital.

Chandrasekaran K(1), Sundaram S(2), Balasubramanian S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Chettinad Hospital and Research Institute, 
Kelambakkam, Chengalpattu District, Tamil Nadu, India.
(2)Department of Pathology, Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and 
Research, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India.

AIM: Neuroendocrine tumors are heterogenous group of neoplasms that includes 
benign and malignant tumors that originate from neuroendocrine or 
nonneuroendocrine organs. Insulinoma-associated protein 1 (INSM1) is a zinc 
finger transcription factor originally isolated from subtraction library of 
human insulinoma. The main aim was to study the INSM1 expression in a spectrum 
of neuroendocrine tumors and a limited spectrum of nonneuroendocrine tumors.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 100 cases of which 57 neuroendocrine neoplasms 
and 43 nonneuroendocrine neoplasms were included in the study. 
Immunohistochemistry (IHC) was done and expression patterns of INSM1 were 
analyzed. Pituitary adenoma, medullary carcinoma of thyroid, pheochromocytoma 
lung, gastrointestinal, and pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors were the 
neuroendocrine tumors that were included in the study. Papillary carcinoma of 
thyroid, gastrointestinal adenocarcinoma, lung adenocarcinoma, and squamous cell 
carcinoma were the nonneuroendocrine tumors that were included in the study. 
Depending upon the tissue availability, comparison of INSM1 with synaptophysin 
and chromogranin was also done in few neuroendocrine tumors.
RESULTS: All the 57 neuroendocrine tumors showed positive expression for INSM1 
and all the nonneuroendocrine tumors were negative for INSM1. This study is 
statistically significant.
CONCLUSION: Our study suggests that INSM1 is a diagnostic marker for 
neuroendocrine tumors with high degree of sensitivity and specificity. The study 
is significant and suggests that INSM1- IHC shows nuclear positivity in a 
spectrum of neuroendocrine tumors. Being a nuclear marker, interpretation is 
easy and more reliable than the cytoplasmic markers. INSM1 has a stronger 
positivity than synaptophysin and chromogranin in the present study especially 
for small cell carcinoma lung. Hence, INSM1 may be included in the routine panel 
for neuroendocrine tumors along with synaptophysin and chromogranin.

Copyright © 2023 Copyright: © 2023 Journal of Cancer Research and Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.4103/jcrt.jcrt_2329_22
PMID: 39023587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]