1. Drug Resist Updat. 2024 Mar;73:101027. doi: 10.1016/j.drup.2023.101027. Epub 
2023 Nov 28.

The role of histone H1.2 in pancreatic cancer metastasis and chemoresistance.

Gu J(1), Zhang J(2), Xia R(3), Wang X(1), Yang J(3), Xie F(3), Zhou Q(3), Li 
J(3), Zhang T(4), Chen Q(3), Fan Y(5), Guo S(6), Wang H(7).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Hepatopancreatobiliary Surgery, Chongqing General Hospital, 
Chongqing, China; Chongqing Key Laboratory of Intelligent Medicine Engineering 
for Hepatopancreatobiliary Diseases, Chongqing 401147, China.
(2)Institute of Hepatopancreatobiliary Surgery, Chongqing General Hospital, 
Chongqing, China; University of Chinese Academy of Sciences (UCAS) Chongqing 
School, Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, China.
(3)Institute of Hepatopancreatobiliary Surgery, Chongqing General Hospital, 
Chongqing, China.
(4)Institute of Hepatopancreatobiliary Surgery, Chongqing General Hospital, 
Chongqing, China; University of Chinese Academy of Sciences (UCAS) Chongqing 
School, Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, China; Chongqing Key Laboratory 
of Intelligent Medicine Engineering for Hepatopancreatobiliary Diseases, 
Chongqing 401147, China.
(5)Department of Biliary Surgery, the Third Affiliated Hospital of Southern 
Medical University, Guangzhou 510630, China. Electronic address: 
fanxifan@smu.edu.cn.
(6)Institute of Hepatopancreatobiliary Surgery, Chongqing General Hospital, 
Chongqing, China; Chongqing Key Laboratory of Intelligent Medicine Engineering 
for Hepatopancreatobiliary Diseases, Chongqing 401147, China; Chongqing School, 
University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Chongqing 400714, China. Electronic 
address: 48066458@qq.com.
(7)Institute of Hepatopancreatobiliary Surgery, Chongqing General Hospital, 
Chongqing, China; University of Chinese Academy of Sciences (UCAS) Chongqing 
School, Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, China; Chongqing Key Laboratory 
of Intelligent Medicine Engineering for Hepatopancreatobiliary Diseases, 
Chongqing 401147, China. Electronic address: whuaizhi@gmail.com.

AIMS: Pancreatic cancer (PC) is a highly metastatic malignant tumor of the 
digestive system. Drug resistance frequently occurs during cancer treatment 
process. This study aimed to explore the link between chemoresistance and tumor 
metastasis in PC and its possible molecular and cellular mechanisms.
METHODS: A Metastasis and Chemoresistance Signature (MCS) scoring system was 
built and validated based on metastasis- and chemoresistance-related genes using 
gene expression data of PC, and the model was applied to single-cell RNA 
sequencing data. The influence of linker histone H1.2 (H1-2) on PC was explored 
through in vitro and in vivo experiments including proliferation, invasion, 
migration, drug sensitivity, rescue experiments and immunohistochemistry, 
emphasizing its regulation with c-MYC signaling pathway.
RESULTS: A novel MCS scoring system accurately predicted PC patient survival and 
was linked to chemoresistance and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in PC 
single-cell RNA sequencing data. H1-2 emerged as a significant prognostic 
factor, with its high expression indicating increased chemoresistance and EMT. 
This upregulation was mediated by c-MYC, which was also found to be highly 
expressed in PC tissues.
CONCLUSION: The MCS scoring system offers insights into PC chemoresistance and 
metastasis potential. Targeting H1-2 could enhance therapeutic strategies and 
improve PC patient outcomes.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.drup.2023.101027
PMID: 38290407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest No conflict of 
interest exists in the submission of this manuscript. We declare that we have no 
financial and personal relationships with other people or organizations that can 
inappropriately influence our work, there is no professional or other personal 
interest of any nature or kind in any product, service and/or company that could 
be construed as influencing the position presented in, or the review of, the 
manuscript entitled. We certify that the submission is not under review by any 
other publication. All the authors listed have approved the manuscript that is 
enclosed.