1. AME Med J. 2023 Jun 30;8:17. doi: 10.21037/amj-23-13. Epub 2023 Jun 6.

Disseminated intravascular coagulation after cryoablation for metastatic 
pancreatic cancer: a case report.

Dulu A(1), Tayban Y(1), Delaleu J(1), Cornelis FH(2), Pastores SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Critical Care Center, Department of Anesthesiology and Critical Care 
Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY, USA.
(2)Interventional Radiology Service, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New 
York, NY, USA.

BACKGROUND: Pancreatic cancer is the fourth most common cause of cancer-related 
death in the United States. Despite advancements in surgery and chemoradiation 
therapies, pancreatic cancer has a 5-year survival rate of only 11% in the 
United States. Cryoablation is emerging as a new and effective therapy for 
locally advanced pancreatic cancer and symptom palliation in metastatic disease. 
To our knowledge, the occurrence of disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) 
after cryoablation is rare.
CASE DESCRIPTION: A 47-year-old woman with no significant past medical history 
was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer and underwent a Whipple procedure followed 
by chemotherapy with gemcitabine and paclitaxel. Due to the abdominal lymph 
nodes, peritoneum, right femur, and surrounding soft tissue metastases, she 
received systemic palliative chemotherapy with gemcitabine and paclitaxel and 
underwent right femur tumor excision, open reduction, and internal fixation, 
followed by radiation therapy. She continued to have persistent pain and 
underwent palliative percutaneous cryoablation of the metastatic tumor under 
computed tomography (CT) and ultrasound guidance. Immediately post procedure, 
she developed slow but continuous blood oozing at the ablation site, which was 
difficult to control despite compression dressings, reinforcement sutures, and 
local thrombin powder. The patient was transferred to the intensive care unit 
where she was noted to be hypotensive and tachycardic, with petechiae in both 
lower extremities. Laboratory studies were consistent with DIC and peripheral 
blood smear revealed multiple schistocytes. CT angiogram of the right lower 
extremity did not show any bleeding vessel amenable to embolization. She was 
transfused red blood cells, platelets, fresh frozen plasma, and cryoprecipitate. 
Despite multiple daily transfusions, she continued to have pain and remained 
persistently thrombocytopenic and coagulopathic. After discussion with the 
patient and her family, she chose to transition to comfort care measures and 
died.
CONCLUSIONS: DIC is an unusual but life-threatening complication of advanced 
pancreatic cancer.

DOI: 10.21037/amj-23-13
PMCID: PMC11141771
PMID: 38827122

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: All authors have 
completed the ICMJE uniform disclosure form (available at 
https://amj.amegroups.com/article/view/10.21037/amj-23-13/coif). The authors 
have no conflicts of interest to declare.