1. J Gastrointest Oncol. 2024 Aug 31;15(4):1893-1907. doi: 10.21037/jgo-22-961. 
Epub 2023 Sep 1.

MR-linac based radiation therapy in gastrointestinal cancers: a narrative 
review.

Ristau J(1)(2)(3)(4), Hörner-Rieber J(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6), Körber 
SA(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Heidelberg University Hospital, Heidelberg, 
Germany.
(2)Heidelberg Institute of Radiation Oncology (HIRO), Department of Radiation 
Oncology, Heidelberg University Hospital, Heidelberg, Germany.
(3)National Center for Tumor diseases (NCT), Heidelberg University Hospital, 
Heidelberg, Germany.
(4)Heidelberg Ion-Beam Therapy Center (HIT), Department of Radiation Oncology, 
Heidelberg University Hospital, Heidelberg, Germany.
(5)Clinical Cooperation Unit Radiation Oncology, German Cancer Research Center 
(DKFZ), Heidelberg, Germany.
(6)German Cancer Consortium (DKTK), Core Center Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Magnetic resonance guided radiotherapy (MRgRT) is an 
emerging technological innovation with more and more institutions gaining 
clinical experience in this new field of radiation oncology. The ability to 
better visualize both tumors and healthy tissues due to excellent soft tissue 
contrast combined with new possibilities regarding motion management and the 
capability of online adaptive radiotherapy might increase tumor control rates 
while potentially reducing the risk of radiation-induced toxicities. As 
conventional computed tomography (CT)-based image guidance methods are 
insufficient for adaptive workflows in abdominal tumors, MRgRT appears to be an 
optimal method for this tumor site. The aim of this narrative review is to 
outline the opportunities and challenges in magnetic resonance guided radiation 
therapy in gastrointestinal cancers.
METHODS: We searched for studies, reviews and conceptual articles, including the 
general technique of MRgRT and the specific utilization in gastrointestinal 
cancers, focusing on pancreatic cancer, liver metastases and primary liver 
cancer, rectal cancer and esophageal cancer.
KEY CONTENT AND FINDINGS: This review is highlighting the innovative approach of 
MRgRT in gastrointestinal cancer and gives an overview of the currently 
available literature with regard to clinical experiences and theoretical 
background.
CONCLUSIONS: MRgRT is a promising new tool in radiation oncology, which can play 
off several of its beneficial features in the specific field of gastrointestinal 
cancers. However, clinical data is still scarce. Nevertheless, the available 
literature points out large potential for improvements regarding dose coverage 
and escalation as well as the reduction of dose exposure to critical organs at 
risk (OAR). Further prospective studies are needed to demonstrate the role of 
this innovative technology in gastrointestinal cancer management, in particular 
trials that randomly compare MRgRT with conventional CT-based image-guided 
radiotherapy (IGRT) would be of high value.

2024 Journal of Gastrointestinal Oncology. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21037/jgo-22-961
PMCID: PMC11399841
PMID: 39279945

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: All authors have 
completed the ICMJE uniform disclosure form (available at 
https://jgo.amegroups.com/article/view/10.21037/jgo-22-961/coif). The series 
“Precision Radiation Oncology in GI Cancers” was commissioned by the editorial 
office without any funding or sponsorship. J.H.R. reports speaker fees from 
ViewRay Inc. and travel reimbursement from ViewRay Inc., IntraOP Medical Systems 
and Elekta Instrument outside the submitted work. J.H.R. further reports a 
research grant from IntraOP Medical and Varian Medical Systems outside the 
submitted work. S.A.K. reports research grants from Viewray Inc. and speaker 
fees from IBA Dosimetry outside the submitted work. The authors have no other 
conflicts of interest to declare.