1. Liver Cancer. 2023 Jul 7;13(2):193-202. doi: 10.1159/000531820. eCollection
2024  Apr.

Multicenter Phase II Trial of Lenvatinib plus Hepatic Intra-Arterial Infusion 
Chemotherapy with Cisplatin for Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma: LEOPARD.

Ikeda M(1), Yamashita T(2), Ogasawara S(3), Kudo M(4), Inaba Y(5), Morimoto 
M(6), Tsuchiya K(7), Shimizu S(8), Kojima Y(9), Hiraoka A(10), Nouso K(11), 
Aikata H(12), Numata K(13), Sato T(14), Okusaka T(15), Furuse J(6)(16).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Oncology, National Cancer Center 
Hospital East, Kashiwa, Japan.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, Kanazawa University Hospital, Kanazawa, 
Japan.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology, Graduate School of Medicine, Chiba 
University, Chiba, Japan.
(4)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Kindai University Faculty of 
Medicine, Osaka, Japan.
(5)Department of Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology, Aichi Cancer Center 
Hospital, Nagoya, Japan.
(6)Department of Gastroenterology, Kanagawa Cancer Center, Yokohama, Japan.
(7)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Musashino Red Cross Hospital, 
Tokyo, Japan.
(8)Department of Gastroenterology, Saitama Cancer Center, Saitama, Japan.
(9)Department of Gastroenterology, National Center for Global Health and 
Medicine Center Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.
(10)Gastroenterology Center, Ehime Prefectural Central Hospital, Matsuyama, 
Japan.
(11)Department of Gastroenterology, Okayama City Hospital, Okayama, Japan.
(12)Department of Gastroenterology and Metabolism, Hiroshima University, 
Hiroshima, Japan.
(13)Gastroenterological Center, Yokohama City University Medical Center, 
Yokohama, Japan.
(14)Department of Biostatistics, Kyoto University School of Public Health, 
Kyoto, Japan.
(15)Department of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Oncology, National Cancer Center 
Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.
(16)Department of Medical Oncology, Kyorin University Faculty of Medicine, 
Tokyo, Japan.

INTRODUCTION: Hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy (HAIC) with cisplatin and 
lenvatinib exhibits strong antitumor effects against advanced hepatocellular 
carcinoma (HCC). Higher antitumor activity is expected for the combination 
treatment. The aim of this trial was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of 
lenvatinib in combination with HAIC using cisplatin in patients with advanced 
HCC.
METHODS: In this multicenter, open-labeled, single-arm, phase II trial, patients 
with advanced HCC categorized as Child-Pugh class A with no prior history of 
systemic therapy were enrolled. Patients received lenvatinib plus HAIC with 
cisplatin (lenvatinib: 12 mg once daily for patients ≥60 kg, 8 mg once daily for 
patients <60 kg; HAIC with cisplatin: 65 mg/m2, day 1, every 4-6 weeks, maximum 
of six cycles). The primary endpoint was the objective response rate (ORR) 
assessed using modified RECIST by the Independent Review Committee. The 
secondary endpoints were the ORR assessed using RECIST v1.1, progression-free 
survival, overall survival, and frequency of adverse events associated with the 
treatment.
RESULTS: A total of 36 patients were enrolled between September 2018 and March 
2020. In the 34 evaluable patients, the ORR assessed by the Independent Review 
Committee using modified RECIST and RECIST v1.1 were 64.7% (95% confidence 
interval [CI]: 46.5-80.3%) and 45.7% (95% CI: 28.8-63.4%), respectively. The 
median progression-free survival and overall survival were 6.3 months (95% CI: 
5.1-7.9 months) and 17.2 months (95% CI: 10.9 - not available, months), 
respectively. The main grade 3-4 adverse events were increased aspartate 
aminotransferase (34%), leukopenia (22%), increased alanine aminotransferase 
(19%), and hypertension (11%).
CONCLUSION: Lenvatinib plus HAIC with cisplatin yielded a favorable ORR and 
overall survival and was well tolerated in patients with advanced HCC. Further 
evaluation of this regimen in a phase III trial is warranted.

© 2023 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000531820
PMCID: PMC11095614
PMID: 38751550

Conflict of interest statement: Ikeda M reports grants or contracts from 
AstraZeneca, Bayer, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Chiome Bioscience, Chugai, Eisai, Eli 
Lilly Japan, Delta-Fly Pharma, Invitae, J-Pharma, Merck Biopharma, Merus N.V., 
MSD, Novartis, Nihon Servier, Ono, Pfizer, Takeda, and Yakult, and personal fees 
and other funding from AstraZeneca, AbbVie, Abbott Japan, Bayer, Bristol-Myers 
Squibb, Chugai, Eisai, Eli Lilly Japan, E.A. Pharma, Fujifilm Toyama Chemical, 
Incyte Biosciences Japan, M.S.D., Nihon Servier, Nippon Kayaku, Novartis, 
Otsuka, Teijin, Taiho, Taisho Pharmaceutical, Takeda, and Yakult outside the 
submitted work. Yamashita T. reports personal fees and other funding from Eisai, 
Chugai, and Lilly outside the submitted work. Ogasawara S. reports grants or 
contracts from Bayer, Eisai, Eli Lilly, Chugai, and AstraZeneca; consulting fees 
from Eisai, Chugai, and AstraZeneca; and personal fees and other funding from 
Bayer, Eisai, Eli Lilly, Chugai, and AstraZeneca outside the submitted work. 
Kudo M. reports grants or contracts from Taiho, E.A. Pharma, Eisai, G.E. 
Healthcare, Otsuka, AbbVie, and Chugai; consulting fees from Chugai, 
AstraZeneca, Roche, and Eisai; and personal fees and other funding from Eli 
Lilly, Bayer, Eisai, Chugai, Takeda, and AstraZeneca; grants: Taiho, Otsuka, 
E.A. Pharma, AbbVie, Eisai, Chugai, G.E. Healthcare; advisory consulting: 
Chugai, Roche, AstraZeneca, and Eisai outside the submitted work. Inaba Y. and 
Morimoto M. report personal fees and other funding from Eisai, outside the 
submitted work. Tsuchiya K. reports personal fees and other funding from Chugai, 
Eisai, Takeda, and Eli Lilly, outside the submitted work. Shimizu S. reports 
grants or contracts from AstraZeneca, Incyte Corporation, and Delta-Fly Pharma, 
outside the submitted work. Kojima Y. reports grants or contracts from Takeda, 
Ono Pharmaceutical, Eisai, Chugai, and Daiichi Sankyo; personal fees and other 
funding from Chugai, Yakult, Daiichi Sankyo, and Eisai; and participation on a 
Data Safety Monitoring Board or Advisory Board of AstraZeneca, outside the 
submitted work. Hiraoka A. reports personal fees and other funding from Chugai, 
AstraZeneca, and Eli Lilly Japan, outside the submitted work. K. Nouso reports 
personal fees and other funding from Nihon Kayaku and Eisai, outside the 
submitted work. Aikata H. reports personal fees and other funding from Eisai and 
Chugai, outside the submitted work. Okusaka T. reports grants or contracts from 
AstraZeneca, Syneos Health, E.P. CRSU, Eisai, M.S.D., and Insight Japan; 
consulting fees from AstraZeneca, Eisai, Nihon Servier, Dainippon Sumitomo 
Pharma, Bristol-Myers, and FUJIFILM Toyama Chemical; and personal fees and other 
funding from AstraZeneca, Insight Japan, Eisai, Ono Pharmaceutical, Yakult 
Honsha, Johnson and Johnson, Daiichi Sankyo, Taiho Pharmaceutical, Chugai, Nihon 
Servier, Nippon Shinyaku, Eli Lilly Japan, Pfizer Japan, and Novartis, outside 
the submitted work. Furuse J reports grants from or contracts with Astellas, 
AstraZeneca, Incyte Biosciences Japan, Eisai, M.S.D., Ono Pharmaceutical, 
Sanofi, J-Pharma, Daiichi Sankyo, Sumitomo Dainippon, Taiho Pharmaceutical, 
Takeda, Delta-Fly Pharma, and Chugai; consulting fees from Fujifilm, Astellas, 
OncoTherapy Science, Delta-Fly Pharma, Merck Bio, Ono Pharmaceutical, M.S.D., 
Taiho, Chugai, AstraZeneca, Incyte Biosciences Japan, and J-Pharma; and personal 
fees and other funding from Ono Pharmaceutical, Chugai Pharma, Incyte 
Biosciences Japan, Eisai, Eli Lilly Japan, AstraZeneca, Yakult, Servier Japan, 
M.S.D., Novartis, Takeda, Bayer, Taiho, E.A. Pharma, Teijin Pharma, Daiichi 
Sankyo, Terumo; and participation on a Data Safety Monitoring Board or Advisory 
Board of OncoTherapy Science, Chugai, Astellas, AstraZeneca, Takara bio, Merck 
Bio, M.S.D., and Taiho, outside the submitted work. K. Numata and Sato T. report 
nothing to declare. Ikeda M., Yamashita T., Tsuchiya K., K. Nouso, and Furuse J. 
are Editorial Board Members of Liver Cancer, and Kudo M. is an Editor in Chief 
of Liver Cancer.