1. Nano Today. 2024 Feb;54:102058. doi: 10.1016/j.nantod.2023.102058. Epub 2023
Nov  15.

Reprogramming the pancreatic cancer stroma and immune landscape by a silicasome 
nanocarrier delivering nintedanib, a protein tyrosine kinase inhibitor.

Luo L(1)(2), Wang X(1)(2), Liao YP(1), Xu X(1)(2), Chang CH(2), Nel AE(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Nanomedicine, Department of Medicine, University of California, 
Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA.
(2)California NanoSystems Institute, University of California, Los Angeles, CA 
90095, USA.

The prevailing desmoplastic stroma and immunosuppressive microenvironment within 
pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) pose substantial challenges to 
therapeutic intervention. Despite the potential of protein tyrosine kinase (PTK) 
inhibitors in mitigating the desmoplastic stromal response and enhancing the 
immune milieu, their efficacy is curtailed by suboptimal pharmacokinetics (PK) 
and insufficient tumor penetration. To surmount these hurdles, we have pioneered 
a novel strategy, employing lipid bilayer-coated mesoporous silica nanoparticles 
(termed "silicasomes") as a carrier for the delivery of Nintedanib. Nintedanib, 
a triple PTK inhibitor that targets vascular endothelial growth factor, 
platelet-derived growth factor and fibroblast growth factor receptors, was 
encapsulated in the pores of silicasomes via a remote loading mechanism for weak 
bases. This innovative approach not only enhanced pharmacokinetics and 
intratumor drug concentrations but also orchestrated a transformative shift in 
the desmoplastic and immune landscape in a robust orthotopic KRAS-mediated 
pancreatic carcinoma (KPC) model. Our results demonstrate attenuation of 
vascular density and collagen content through encapsulated Nintedanib treatment, 
concomitant with significant augmentation of the CD8+/FoxP3+ T-cell ratio. This 
remodeling was notably correlated with tumor regression in the KPC model. 
Strikingly, the synergy between encapsulated Nintedanib and anti-PD-1 
immunotherapy further potentiated the antitumor effect. Both free and 
encapsulated Nintedanib induced a transcriptional upregulation of PD-L1 via the 
extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) pathway. In summary, our pioneering 
approach involving the silicasome carrier not only improved antitumor 
angiogenesis but also profoundly reshaped the desmoplastic stromal and immune 
landscape within PDAC. These insights hold excellent promise for the development 
of innovative combinatorial strategies in PDAC therapy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nantod.2023.102058
PMCID: PMC11044875
PMID: 38681872

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare the following competing financial interest(s): Andre E. Nel is 
co-founder and equity holder in Westwood Biosciences Inc. and Nammi 
Therapeutics. Nel also serves on the Board for Westwood Biosciences Inc. The 
remaining authors declare no conflict of interest.