1. Front Endocrinol (Lausanne). 2024 Jan 9;14:1308662. doi: 
10.3389/fendo.2023.1308662. eCollection 2023.

Case report: Insulinomatosis: description of four sporadic cases and review of 
the literature.

Lourenço DM Jr(1)(2), Corrêa-Giannella ML(3), Siqueira SAC(4), Nery M(5), 
Ribeiro FG(1), Quedas EPS(1), Rocha MS(6), do Nascimento RM(1), Pereira MAA(5).

Author information:
(1)Unidade de Endocrinologia Genética (LIM-25), Hospital das Clínicas (HCFMUSP), 
Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Instituto do Câncer do Estado de São Paulo (ICESP), Faculdade de Medicina, 
Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(3)Laboratório de Carboidratos e Radioimunoensaio (LIM-18), Hospital das 
Clínicas (HCFMUSP), Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, 
Brazil.
(4)Divisão de Patologia, Hospital das Clínicas (HCFMUSP), Faculdade de Medicina, 
Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(5)Divisão de Endocrinologia e Metabologia, Hospital das Clínicas (HCFMUSP), 
Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(6)Departamento de Radiologia, Hospital das Clínicas (HCFMUSP), Faculdade de 
Medicina, Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.

The best-known etiologies of hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia are insulinoma, 
non-insulinoma pancreatogenous hypoglycemic syndrome, autoimmune processes, and 
factitious hypoglycemia. In 2009, a disease not associated with classic genetic 
syndromes and characterized by the presence of multiple pancreatic lesions was 
described and named insulinomatosis. We present the clinical and pathologic 
features of four patients with the diagnosis of insulinomatosis, aggregated new 
clinical data, reviewed extensively the literature, and illustrated the nature 
and evolution of this recently recognized disease. One of our patients had 
isolated (without fasting hypoglycemia) postprandial hypoglycemia, an occurrence 
not previously reported in the literature. Furthermore, we reported the second 
case presenting malignant disease. All of them had persistent/recurrent 
hypoglycemia after the first surgery even with pathology confirming the presence 
of a positive insulin neuroendocrine tumor. In the literature review, 27 
sporadic insulinomatosis cases were compiled. All of them had episodes of 
fasting hypoglycemia except one of our patients. Only two patients had malignant 
disease, and one of them was from our series. The suspicion of insulinomatosis 
can be raised before surgery in patients without genetic syndromes, with 
multiple tumors in the topographic investigation and in those who had persistent 
or recurrent hypoglycemia after surgical removal of one or more tumors. The 
definitive diagnosis is established by histology and immunohistochemistry and 
requires examination of the "macroscopically normal pancreas." Our case series 
reinforces the marked predominance in women, the high frequency of recurrent 
hypoglycemia, and consequently, a definitive poor response to the usual surgical 
treatment.

Copyright © 2024 Lourenço, Corrêa-Giannella, Siqueira, Nery, Ribeiro, Quedas, 
Rocha, Nascimento and Pereira.

DOI: 10.3389/fendo.2023.1308662
PMCID: PMC10803616
PMID: 38264280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest. The author(s) declared that 
they were an editorial board member of Frontiers, at the time of submission. 
This had no impact on the peer review process and the final decision.