1. JCO Oncol Pract. 2024 Nov 26:OP2400279. doi: 10.1200/OP.24.00279. Online ahead
 of print.

Novel Therapies for Pancreatic Cancer.

Chung V(1)(2), Mizrahi JD(1), Pant S(2).

Author information:
(1)Ochsner Medical Center, New Orleans, LA.
(2)MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX.

Pancreatic adenocarcinoma (PDAC) unfortunately remains a highly fatal disease 
with a 5-year survival rate of only 11%. If surgical resection is not possible, 
systemic chemotherapy represents the standard-of-care approach to management. 
Combination chemotherapy regimens using fluorouracil (fluorouracil, oxaliplatin, 
leucovorin, and irinotecan; and fluorouracil, leucovorin, and oxaliplatin) or 
gemcitabine with albumin-bound paclitaxel have the potential to improve overall 
survival for patients with advanced disease. With the increasing understanding 
of the molecular drivers of pancreatic cancer, novel therapeutic approaches have 
made incremental progress for these patients. The molecular landscape of PDAC 
has been studied extensively. Approximately 90% of PDACs harbor mutations in the 
KRAS gene, a driver mutation that has long been considered undruggable. However, 
novel KRAS inhibitors have shown therapeutic promise in early-phase clinical 
trials, with larger studies ongoing. Less frequently encountered genomic 
aberrations that have therapeutic potential include NRG, BRAF, NTRK, HER2, BRCA, 
PALB2, and claudin. Immune checkpoint inhibitors have unfortunately yielded 
disappointing efficacy for the majority of patients with pancreatic cancer, 
except for those with tumors exhibiting deficiency in mismatch repair proteins. 
Alternative approaches to incorporate immunotherapy have shown more promise such 
as use of immune checkpoint inhibitors for selected patients in the maintenance 
setting and potential vaccine therapies in the postsurgery adjuvant setting. It 
is vital to perform molecular profiling in all patients with PDAC to identify 
potential treatment targets, and to enroll patients in clinical trials whenever 
possible.

DOI: 10.1200/OP.24.00279
PMID: 39591547