1. Gastrointest Endosc. 2024 Nov 25:S0016-5107(24)03749-0. doi: 
10.1016/j.gie.2024.11.039. Online ahead of print.

Necrosectomy and its timing in relation to clinical outcomes of endoscopic 
ultrasound-guided treatment of walled-off pancreatic necrosis: a multicenter 
study.

Tsujimae M(1), Saito T(2), Sakai A(1), Takenaka M(3), Omoto S(3), Hamada T(4), 
Ota S(5), Shiomi H(6), Takahashi S(7), Fujisawa T(7), Suda K(8), Matsubara S(8), 
Uemura S(9), Iwashita T(9), Yoshida K(10), Maruta A(10), Okuno M(11), Iwata 
K(11), Hayashi N(12), Mukai T(13), Yasuda I(12), Isayama H(7), Nakai Y(14), 
Masuda A(15); WONDERFUL study group in Japan.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, Kobe 
University Graduate School of Medicine, Hyogo, Japan.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, Graduate School of Medicine, The University 
of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Faculty of Medicine, Kindai 
University, Osaka, Japan.
(4)Department of Gastroenterology, Graduate School of Medicine, The University 
of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan; Department of Hepato-Biliary-Pancreatic Medicine, Cancer 
Institute Hospital, Japanese Foundation for Cancer Research, Tokyo, Japan.
(5)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, Kobe 
University Graduate School of Medicine, Hyogo, Japan; Division of Hepatobiliary 
and Pancreatic Diseases, Department of Gastroenterology, Hyogo Medical 
University, Hyogo, Japan.
(6)Division of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Diseases, Department of 
Gastroenterology, Hyogo Medical University, Hyogo, Japan.
(7)Department of Gastroenterology, Graduate School of Medicine, Juntendo 
University, Tokyo, Japan.
(8)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Saitama Medical Center, 
Saitama Medical University, Saitama, Japan.
(9)First Department of Internal Medicine, Gifu University Hospital, Gifu, Japan.
(10)Department of Gastroenterology, Gifu Prefectural General Medical Center, 
Gifu, Japan.
(11)Department of Gastroenterology, Gifu Municipal Hospital, Gifu, Japan.
(12)Third Department of Internal Medicine, University of Toyama, Toyama, Japan.
(13)Department of Gastroenterological Endoscopy, Kanazawa Medical University, 
Ishikawa, Japan.
(14)Department of Gastroenterology, Graduate School of Medicine, The University 
of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan; Department of Internal Medicine, Institute of 
Gastroenterology, Tokyo Women's Medical University, Tokyo, Japan. Electronic 
address: ynakai-tky@umin.ac.jp.
(15)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, Kobe 
University Graduate School of Medicine, Hyogo, Japan. Electronic address: 
atmasuda@med.kobe-u.ac.jp.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS)-guided transmural drainage with 
on-demand endoscopic necrosectomy (EN) is increasingly utilized to manage 
walled-off necrosis (WON). It has not been fully elucidated how EN and its 
timing are correlated with treatment outcomes compared to the drainage-based 
approach.
METHODS: Within a multi-institutional cohort of 423 patients with pancreatic 
fluid collections including 227 patients with WON, we identified 153 patients 
who received the step-up treatment following the initial EUS-guided drainage of 
symptomatic WON, including 102 EN patients and 51 non-EN (drainage) patients. 
Using the competing-risks multivariable proportional hazards regression model 
with adjustment for potential confounders, we calculated subdistribution hazard 
ratios (SHRs) for clinical treatment success (WON resolution) by the use of EN 
and its timing.
RESULTS: Compared to drainage alone, the EN-based treatment was associated with 
a shorter time to clinical success with a multivariable SHR of 1.66 (95% 
confidence interval, 1.12-2.46). Despite a higher risk of procedure-related 
bleeding in the EN group, there were no differences in the rates of severe 
adverse events (7.8% vs. 5.9% in the EN and non-EN groups, respectively) and 
mortality (6.9% vs. 9.8%). In the EN-treated patients, the timing of EN was not 
statistically significantly associated with the time to clinical success (Ptrend 
= 0.34) CONCLUSION: Among patients receiving EUS-guided treatment of symptomatic 
WON, the use of EN in addition to drainage procedures was associated with 
earlier disease resolution. Further research is desired to determine the optimal 
timing of initiating EN considering a risk-benefit balance and 
cost-effectiveness.

Copyright © 2024 American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gie.2024.11.039
PMID: 39603541