1. Cell Death Discov. 2024 Nov 22;10(1):479. doi: 10.1038/s41420-024-02245-3.

Systemic tumor regression with synergy therapy: radiotherapy and CAR-T.

Ma X(1), Zhang W(1), Zeng M(1), Asavasupreechar T(1), Kang S(1), Li Y(2)(3), Yu 
L(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology and Oncology, Shenzhen University General Hospital, 
International Cancer Center, Hematology Institution of Shenzhen University, 
Shenzhen University Health Science Center, Shenzhen Clinical Research Center for 
hematologic disease, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, China.
(2)Biomedical Laboratory, Shenzhen University-Haoshi Cell Therapy Institute, 
Shenzhen, China. ysli@haoshibio.com.
(3)R&D Department, Shenzhen Haoshi Biotechnology Co., Ltd, Shenzhen, China. 
ysli@haoshibio.com.
(4)Department of Hematology and Oncology, Shenzhen University General Hospital, 
International Cancer Center, Hematology Institution of Shenzhen University, 
Shenzhen University Health Science Center, Shenzhen Clinical Research Center for 
hematologic disease, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, China. yuli@szu.edu.cn.
(5)Biomedical Laboratory, Shenzhen University-Haoshi Cell Therapy Institute, 
Shenzhen, China. yuli@szu.edu.cn.

Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is one of the most poorly prognostic 
digestive tract malignancies. CLDN18.2 CAR-T therapy has recently shown 
promising clinical effects in PDAC. Radiotherapy, a traditional treatment, can 
induce systemic immune activation and abscopal effects. However, the synergistic 
effect and mechanism of their combination in PDAC treatment remain poorly 
understood. In this study, we developed a CLDN18.2-specific CAR-T and applied it 
to unilateral and bilateral mouse tumor models. Our results demonstrated that 
this synergy therapy not only improved tumor-killing effects in unilateral 
tumor-bearing mice but also induced regression in both local and distant tumors 
in bilateral tumor models. Mechanistically, early radiation-induced apoptosis 
promoted the proliferation of CD8 + T cells, while increased chemokine CCL2 
levels from localized and distant tumor sites facilitated CAR-T and endogenous T 
cell infiltration, leading to systemic tumor suppression. This study proposes a 
promising approach for treating metastatic pancreatic cancer by combining 
radiotherapy and CAR-T therapy, elucidating the mechanism of CAR-T cell-enhanced 
radiotherapy effects ex vivo, and highlighting a novel strategy for combating 
metastatic pancreatic cancer.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41420-024-02245-3
PMCID: PMC11584735
PMID: 39578426

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare that 
the patent for the CLDN18.2-specific CAR-T therapy is held by Shenzhen Haoshi 
Biotechnology Co., Ltd, which also provided material support for this study. The 
authors have no other conflicts of interest to disclose. Ethics approval and 
consent to participate: All methods in this study were performed in accordance 
with the relevant guidelines and regulations. All animal care and experimental 
procedures were conducted according to the guidelines approved by the 
Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee of Shenzhen University Medical 
School (IACUC-202400138).