1. BJS Open. 2024 Oct 29;8(6):zrae134. doi: 10.1093/bjsopen/zrae134.

Impact of the radiological morphology of the mesopancreas on the outcome after 
pancreatoduodenectomy for pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma: retrospective study.

Navez J(1), Pezzullo M(2), Bouchart C(3), Arsenijevic T(1)(4), Demetter P(4)(5), 
Closset J(1), Azurmendi Senar O(4), Racu ML(6), D'Haene N(6), Devière J(1), 
Verset L(6), Bali MA(2), van Laethem JL(1).

Author information:
(1)Medico-Surgical Department of Gastroenterology, Hepatopancreatology and 
Digestive Oncology, Hôpital Universitaire de Bruxelles (HUB), Brussels, Belgium.
(2)Department of Radiology, Hôpital Universitaire de Bruxelles (HUB), Brussels, 
Belgium.
(3)Department of Radiotherapy, Hôpital Universitaire de Bruxelles (HUB), 
Brussels, Belgium.
(4)Laboratory of Experimental Gastroenterology, Université Libre de Bruxelles 
(ULB), Brussels, Belgium.
(5)Centre de Morphologie Pathologique (CMP), Cerba Path, Brussels, Belgium.
(6)Department of Pathology, Hôpital Universitaire de Bruxelles (HUB), Brussels, 
Belgium.

BACKGROUND: The most frequently invaded margins on pancreatoduodenectomy 
specimens for pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma are vascular margins, 
particularly the superior mesenteric artery (or mesopancreatic) margin. Due to 
limited exploration of the radiological aspect of the mesopancreas, the aim of 
this study was to evaluate mesopancreatic infiltration through imaging of 
patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma who underwent 
pancreatoduodenectomy, to correlate these findings with histopathology and 
evaluate their impact on survival.
METHODS: Data for all patients who underwent pancreatoduodenectomy for 
pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma from 2015 to 2021 were reviewed, including 
review of surgical margin histopathology and blinded review of preoperative 
diagnostic imaging. According to qualitative radiological assessment, the 
mesopancreas was characterized as having normal fat, fat stranding, or solid 
infiltration. Survival data were analysed using Cox regression.
RESULTS: A total of 149 patients were included. At baseline imaging, 
mesopancreatic fat stranding or solid infiltration was present in 47 patients 
(31.5%) and 20 patients (13.4%) respectively. Median overall survival and 
disease-free survival were significantly lower with mesopancreatic solid 
infiltration (17 and 8 months) compared with normal fat (30 and 14 months) and 
fat stranding (29 and 16 months) (P = 0.017 and 0.028 respectively). In 
multivariable analysis, pathological tumour size was an independent prognostic 
factor for overall survival, and tumour location in the uncinate process and 
pathological tumour size were independent prognostic factors for disease-free 
survival.
CONCLUSION: At diagnostic imaging, solid infiltration (but not fat stranding) of 
the mesopancreas is associated with a poor prognosis for pancreatic ductal 
adenocarcinoma patients who undergo pancreatoduodenectomy. Pathological tumour 
size significantly influences the prediction of overall survival, and tumour 
location in the uncinate process and pathological tumour size significantly 
influence the prediction of disease-free survival, suggesting further 
exploration of underlying mechanisms related to retroperitoneal tumoral invasion 
of vascular margins and the mesopancreas.

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of BJS 
Foundation Ltd.

DOI: 10.1093/bjsopen/zrae134
PMCID: PMC11599710
PMID: 39601263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]