1. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2024 Nov 14:2024.11.13.621984. doi: 
10.1101/2024.11.13.621984.

Aberrant expression of collagen type X in solid tumor stroma is associated with 
EMT, immunosuppressive and pro-metastatic pathways, bone marrow stromal cell 
signatures, and poor survival prognosis.

Famili-Youth EHH, Famili-Youth A, Yang D, Siddique A, Wu EY, Liu W, Resnick MB, 
Chen Q, Brodsky AS.

BACKGROUND: Collagen type X (ColXα1, encoded by COL10A1 ) is expressed 
specifically in the cartilage-to-bone transition, in bone marrow cells, and in 
osteoarthritic (OA) cartilage. We have previously shown that ColXα1 is expressed 
in breast tumor stroma, correlates with tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes, and 
predicts poor adjuvant therapy outcomes in ER + /HER2 + breast cancer. However, 
the underlying molecular mechanisms for these effects are unknown. In this 
study, we performed bioinformatic analysis of COL10A1 -associated gene modules 
in breast and pancreatic cancer as well as in cells from bone marrow and OA 
cartilage. These findings provide important insights into the mechanisms of 
transcriptional and extracellular matrix changes which impact the local stromal 
microenvironment and tumor progression.
METHODS: Immunohistochemistry was performed to examine collagen type X 
expression in solid tumors. WGCNA was used to generate COL10A1 -associated gene 
networks in breast and pancreatic tumor cohorts using RNA-Seq data from The 
Cancer Genome Atlas. Computational analysis was employed to assess the impact of 
these gene networks on development and progression of cancer and OA. Data 
processing and statistical analysis was performed using R and various 
publicly-available computational tools.
RESULTS: Expression of COL10A1 and its associated gene networks highlights 
inflammatory and immunosuppressive microenvironments, which identify aggressive 
breast and pancreatic tumors and contribute to metastatic potential in a 
sex-dependent manner. Both cancer types are enriched in stroma, and COL10A1 
implicates bone marrow-derived fibroblasts as drivers of the 
epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in these tumors. Heightened 
expression of COL10A1 and its associated gene networks is correlated with poorer 
patient outcomes in both breast and pancreatic cancer. Common transcriptional 
changes and chondrogenic activity are shared between cancer and OA cartilage, 
suggesting that similar microenvironmental alterations may underlie both 
diseases.
CONCLUSIONS: COL10A1 -associated gene networks may hold substantial value as 
regulators and biomarkers of aggressive tumor phenotypes with implications for 
therapy development and clinical outcomes. Identification of tumors which 
exhibit high expression of COL10A1 and its associated genes may reveal the 
presence of bone marrow-derived stromal microenvironments with heightened EMT 
capacity and metastatic potential. Our analysis may enable more effective risk 
assessment and more precise treatment of patients with breast and pancreatic 
cancer.
RESEARCH HIGHLIGHTS: ColX highlights features of EMT in breast and pancreatic 
cancerColX gene modules are immunosuppressive and pro-metastaticColX-associated 
gene networks contribute to sex differences in pancreatic cancerColX-positive 
fibroblasts define more aggressive tumors with poorer survivalColX is emerging 
as a biomarker for bone marrow-derived cells in cancer.

DOI: 10.1101/2024.11.13.621984
PMCID: PMC11601388
PMID: 39605631