1. Front Oncol. 2024 Nov 13;14:1419297. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2024.1419297.
eCollection  2024.

Comparison of multiple machine learning models for predicting prognosis of 
pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma based on contrast-enhanced CT radiomics and 
clinical features.

Huang Y(#)(1)(2)(3), Zhang H(#)(1)(2)(3), Ding Q(#)(1)(2)(3), Chen D(3)(4), 
Zhang X(1)(2)(3), Weng S(1)(2)(3)(5)(6), Liu G(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hepatopancreatobiliary Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital, 
Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, Fujian, China.
(2)Fujian Abdominal Surgery Research Institute, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, Fujian, China.
(3)National Regional Medical Center, Binhai Campus of the First Affiliated 
Hospital, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, Fujian, China.
(4)Department of Radiology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian Medical 
University, Fuzhou, Fujian, China.
(5)Fujian Provincial Key Laboratory of Precision Medicine for Cancer, The First 
Affiliated Hospital of Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, Fujian, China.
(6)Clinical Research Center for Hepatobiliary Pancreatic and Gastrointestinal 
Malignant Tumors Precise Treatment of Fujian, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, Fujian, China.
(#)Contributed equally

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to evaluate the prognostic potential of 
combining clinical features and radiomics with multiple machine learning (ML) 
algorithms in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC).
METHODS: A total of 116 patients with PDAC who met the eligibility criteria were 
randomly assigned to a training or validation cohort. Seven ML algorithms, 
including Supervised Principal Components, stepwise Cox, Random Survival Forest, 
CoxBoost, Least absolute shrinkage and selection operation (Lasso), Ridge, and 
Elastic network, were integrated into 43 algorithm combinations. Forty-three 
radiomics models were constructed separately using radiomics features extracted 
from arterial phase (AP), venous phase (VP), and combined arterial and venous 
phase (AP+VP) images. The concordance index (C-index) of each model was 
calculated. The model with the highest mean C-index was identified as the best 
model for calculating the radiomics score (Radscore). Univariate and 
multivariate Cox analyses were used to identify independent prognostic 
indicators and create a clinical model for prognosis prediction. The 
multivariable Cox regression was used to combine Radscore with clinical features 
to create a combined model. The efficacy of the model was evaluated using the 
C-index, calibration curves, and decision curve analysis (DCA).
RESULTS: The model based on the Lasso+StepCox[both] algorithm constructed using 
AP+VP radiomics features showed the best predictive ability among the 114 
radiomics models. The C-indices of the model in the training and validation 
cohorts were 0.742 and 0.722, respectively. Based on the results of the 
univariate and multivariate Cox regression analyses, sex, Tumor-Node-Metastasis 
(TNM) stage, and systemic inflammation response index were included to build the 
clinical model. The combined model, incorporating three clinical factors and 
AP+VP-Radscore, achieved the highest C-indices of 0.764 and 0.746 in the 
training and validation cohorts, respectively. In terms of preoperative 
prognosis prediction for PDAC, the calibration curve and DCA showed that the 
combined model had a good consistency and greatest net benefit.
CONCLUSION: A combined model of clinical features and AP+VP-Radscore screened 
using multiple ML algorithms has an excellent ability to predict the prognosis 
of PDAC and may provide a noninvasive and effective method for clinical 
decision-making.

Copyright © 2024 Huang, Zhang, Ding, Chen, Zhang, Weng and Liu.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2024.1419297
PMCID: PMC11598923
PMID: 39605884

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.