1. Anal Chem. 2024 Nov 23. doi: 10.1021/acs.analchem.4c03065. Online ahead of 
print.

Luciferase-Based Reporter System for Investigating GPx4-Mediated Ferroptosis and 
Its Therapeutic Implications in Diabetes.

Mohanram Ramkumar K(1), Thasu Susindran O(1), Ganesh GV(1), Kannan H(1), 
Paulmurugan R(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, School of Bioengineering, SRM Institute of 
Science and Technology, Kattankulathur 603 203, Tamil Nadu, India.
(2)Department of Radiology, Molecular Imaging Program at Stanford, Canary Centre 
for Cancer Early Detection, Bio-X Program, Stanford University School of 
Medicine, Palo Alto, California 94304, United States.

Ferroptosis, a distinct form of regulated cell death, is characterized by 
iron-dependent lipid peroxide accumulation in cell membranes from dysregulated 
cellular iron homeostasis and compromised antioxidant defense mechanisms. 
Glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPx4) is crucial in the regulation of ferroptosis by 
controlling lipid peroxide accumulation. Recent research established the 
association of ferroptosis with several diseases, prompting investigation toward 
ferroptosis-targeted therapeutic approaches. However, there is a lack of sensor 
systems designed to evaluate ferroptosis modulation in intact cells. In this 
study, we developed a highly sensitive luciferase-based reporter system to study 
GPx4-mediated ferroptosis in cells. We constructed a novel vector flanking the 
GPx4 promoter driving luciferase gene expression, demonstrating 
ferroptosis-specific luciferase activity in transfected HEK293T cells. We 
established stable cells expressing the construct and optimized its suitability 
for high-throughput screening using well-established ferroptosis modulators. We 
identified eugenol, a phenolic compound, as a potent ferroptosis inhibitor using 
the developed reporter system. Eugenol demonstrated dose-dependent protection 
against ferroptosis-induced damage in pancreatic beta cells, as assessed by the 
expression of the key markers such as GPx4, SLC7A11, NRF2, and HO1. Further, we 
showed the regulation of iron levels and total iron-binding capacity of beta 
cells by eugenol in streptozotocin (STZ) -induced diabetic mice. Additionally, 
the diabetes-induced downregulation of GPx4 and antioxidant Nrf2 in pancreatic 
tissue was significantly mitigated by eugenol, as evidenced by both 
immunohistochemistry and gene expression analysis. This research validates the 
functionality of the ferroptosis sensor and offers an approach to develop 
antidiabetic therapy by targeting ferroptosis to protect beta-cell viability and 
function.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.analchem.4c03065
PMID: 39579117