Purpose:Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a cancer with unmet needs. The role of highly conformal radiation therapy is still under debate for PDAC. Owing to its desmoplastic nature, integrin-mediated interactions between PDAC cells and extracellular matrix (ECM) profoundly contribute to PDAC therapy resistance. In this study, we investigated the radiochemosensitizing potential of β1 integrin targeting in therapy-naive and radioresistant PDAC cell cultures grown in 3-dimensional (3D) ECM.Methods and materials:In a panel of 3D, ECM-based PDAC cell cultures, β1 integrin was inhibited by antibodies or siRNA-mediated knockdown. Together with x-ray irradiation and specific chemotherapies, we determined 3D colony formation capacity in therapy-naive and radioresistant PDAC cultures. We used kinome profiling, Western blotting, and immunofluorescence stainings to characterize these cell lines. Various siRNA screens were conducted to identify novel therapeutic targets.Results:We found a significant radiosensitizing potential of β1 integrin inhibition both in therapy-naive and radioresistant PDAC cell cultures. Kinome profiling upon β1 integrin targeting identified a generally declined tyrosine and serine/threonine kinase activity, which presented less prominent in radioresistant than in therapy-naive PDAC cells. siRNA screens employing the top 34 deregulated kinases in combination with β1 integrin inhibition revealed less efficacy and less radiosensitization in radioresistant relative to therapy-naive PDAC cell cultures. Triple inhibition of β1 integrin, protein kinase D1, and rearranged during transfection turned out to be most effective in reducing 3D colony formation of radioresistant PDAC cells.Conclusions:Our study clearly shows that β1 integrins are robust targets for overcoming radioresistance in PDAC. This seems to apply equally to therapy-sensitive and radioresistant cells. Concerning tumor heterogeneity, this dual therapy-sensitizing potential might be exploitable for a significant improvement of patient survival.