Ferroptosis is a form of regulated cell death initiated by oxidative perturbations that can be blocked by iron chelators and lipophilic antioxidants, and ferroptosis may be the silver bullet treatment for multiple cancers, including immunotherapy- and chemotherapy-insensitive cancers such as pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). Numerous studies have noted that long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) regulate the biological behaviour of cancer cells by binding to DNA, RNA and protein. However, few studies have reported the role of lncRNAs in ferroptosis processes and the function of ferroptosis-associated lncRNAs. The primary objective of the present study was to identify ferroptosis-related lncRNAs using bioinformatic approaches combined with experimental validation. The second objective was to construct a prognostic model to predict the overall survival of patients with PDAC. The present study identified ferroptosis-related lncRNAs using a bioinformatic approach and validated them in an independent pancreatic cancer cohort from Fudan University Shanghai Cancer Center. The lncRNA SLCO4A1-AS1 was identified as a novel molecule mediating ferroptosis resistance in vitro. A novel algorithm was used to construct a '0 or 1' matrix-based prognosis model, which showed promising diagnostic accuracy for potential clinical translation (area under the curve = 0.89 for the 2-year survival rate). Notably, molecular subtypes classified by the risk scores of the model did not belong to any previously reported subtypes of PDAC. The immune microenvironment, metabolic activities, mutation landscape and ferroptosis sensitivity were significantly distinct between patients with different risk scores. Sensitivity (IC50) to 30 common anticancer drugs was analysed between patients with different risks, and imatinib and axitinib were found to be potential drugs for the treatment of patients with lower risk scores. Overall, we developed an accurate prognostic model based on the expression patterns of ferroptosis lncRNAs, which may contribute greatly to the evaluation of patient prognosis, molecular characteristics and treatment modalities and could be further translated into clinical applications.