Pancreatic cancer (PC) is the most lethal malignancy due to its high metastatic ability and poor drug permeability. Here, a synergized interventional photothermal-immunotherapy strategy was developed with imaging guidance and temperature monitoring by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) technique, for the local treatment of metastatic PC. A tumor microenvironment (TME)-responsive nanoplatform was fabricated via coating of DSPE-PEG and indocyanine green (ICG) onto imiquimod (IMQ) loaded amorphous iron oxide nanoparticles (IONs). This unique nanoplatform, IMQ@IONs/ICG, served as a contrast agent for MRI, a drug delivery vehicle for IMQ and ICG, and a catalyst for TME modulation. The biodegradable IMQ@IONs/ICG was also non-toxic, and improved the penetration of the loaded drugs in PC to maximize thermal ablation of the tumor and minimize damage to the surrounding healthy tissue. For the treatment of aggressive, metastatic Panc02-H7 pancreatic tumors in mice, ION-assisted MRI was employed to guide the administration of interventional photothermal therapy (IPTT) and monitor the temperature distribution in target tumor and surrounding tissue during treatment. The local IPTT treatment induced in situ immunogenic cell death (ICD), and, in combination with released IMQ, triggered a strong antitumor immunity, leading to decreased metastases and increased CD8+in spleen and tumors. With precise local treatment and monitoring, treated primary tumors were completely eradicated, mesentery metastases were dramatically reduced, and the survival time was significantly prolonged, without damage to normal tissue and systemic autoimmunity. Overall, this synergistic strategy represents a promising approach to treat PC with significant potential for clinical applications. STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: Pancreatic cancer (PC) is one of the most lethal malignancies because it is non-permeable to drugs and highly metastatic. In this study, we designed a tumor microenvironment-responsive amorphous iron oxide nanoplatform (ION) to co-deliver photothermal agent (ICG) and toll-like-receptor-7 agonist (IMQ). This biodegradable nanoplatform IMQ@IONs/ICG improved the penetration of the loaded drugs in pancreatic tumor. With MR imaging guidance and temperature monitoring, the precise interventional photothermal therapy on mouse Panc02-H7 orthotopic tumors releases tumor antigens to initiate tumor-special immune responses, amplified by the released IMQ. Our results demonstrate that IMQ@IONs/ICG overcomes the obstacle of drug delivery to pancreatic tumors, and when combined with photothermal therapy, induces a systemic antitumor immunity to control metastatic tumors.