Ethnopharmacological relevance:Pancreatic cancer is a common malignancy worldwide due to its poor prognosis and high mortality rate. It is clinically proven that the combination of chemotherapeutic drugs and Traditional Chinese Medicine injections (TCMIs) significantly improves the therapeutic effect.Aim of the study:To evaluate the efficacy and clinical benefits of TCMIs in combination with chemotherapy in the treatment of pancreatic cancer and to explore the mechanism of clinical advantage of Aidi injection.Methods:Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) were searched in databases by NMA before December 29, 2020. WinBUGS 1.4, Stata 14.0, and R 4.0.4 software were used for calculations. All results were expressed as odds ratios and 95% credible intervals. Through the network pharmacology method, the chemical components and their targets, as well as the disease targets were further analyzed. And then, biological experiments were integrated to verify the results of network pharmacology analysis. (PROSPERO ID: CRD42021283559).Results:A total of 33 RCTs with 8 TCMIs and 2011 patients were included. The results of NMA showed that Aidi injection can significantly improve the clinical efficacy (OR = 0.34, 95%CI: 0.16-0.74), and the clinical advantage was that it can significantly alleviate the leukopenia and thrombocytopenia caused by chemotherapy (OR = 5.65, 95%CI: 1.18-28.13). A total of 23 chemical compounds and 280 potential targets for Aidi injection were obtained from the online databases. Among them, there were 22 compounds, 50 targets and 211 signaling pathways closely related to leukopenia. Five genes were predicted to be core targets of ADI in alleviating leukopenia, and 2 of them (TP53 and VEGFA) were confirmed by biological experiments as regulatory targets of ADI in the treatment of PC.Conclusions:In conclusion, TCMIs in combination with chemotherapy, can improve clinical efficacy and safety in the treatment of pancreatic cancer. However, the overall evidence base is low, and large samples with multi-center RCTs are still needed to support further research findings. Aidi injection can alleviate leukopenia mainly by intervening in oxidative stress, regulating cell proliferation and apoptosis, and regulating the inflammatory response. The combined application of NMA, network pharmacology, and biological experiments provides a reference for clinical evaluation and mechanism of action exploration of other drugs.