A major clinical challenge for treating patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is identifying those that may benefit from adjuvant chemotherapy versus those that will not. Thus, there is a need for a robust and convenient biomarker for predicting chemotherapy response in PDAC patients. In this study, network inference was conducted by integrating the differentially expressed cell cycle signatures and target genes between the basal-like subtype and classical subtype of PDAC. As a result from this statistical analysis, two dominant cell cycle genes, RASAL2 and ASPM, were identified. Based on the expression levels of these two genes, we constructed a "Enhanced Cell Cycle" scoring system (ECC score). Patients were given an ECC score, and respectively divided into ECC-high and ECC-low groups. Survival, pathway enrichment, immune environment characteristics, and chemotherapy response analysis' were performed between the two groups in a total of 891 patients across 5 cohorts. ECC-high patients exhibited shortened recurrence-free survival (RFS) and overall survival (OS) rates. In addition, it was found that adjuvant chemotherapy could significantly improve the outcome of the ECC-high patients while ECC-low patients did not benefit from adjuvant chemotherapy. It was also found that there was less CD8+ T cell, natural killer (NK) cell, M1 macrophage, and plasma cell infiltration in ECC-high patients when compared to ECC-low patients. Also, the expression of CD73, an immune suppressor gene, and it's related hypoxia pathway were elevated in the ECC-high group when compared to the ECC-low group. In conclusion, this study showed that patients characterized as ECC-high not only had reduced RFS and OS rates, but were also more sensitive to adjuvant chemotherapy and could potentially be less sensitive to immune checkpoint inhibitors. Being able to characterize patients by these parameters would allow doctors to make more informed decisions on patient treatment regimens.