Background:Cancer stem cells (CSCs) are now being considered as the initial component in the development of pancreatic adenocarcinoma (PAAD). Our aim was to develop a CSCrelated signature to assess the prognosis of PAAD patients for the optimization of treatment.Methods:Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between pancreatic tumor and normal tissue in the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) were screened out, and the weighted gene correlation network analysis (WGCNA) was employed to identify the CSC-related gene sets. Then, univariate, Lasso Cox regression analyses and multivariate Cox regression were applied to construct a prognostic signature using the CSC-related genes. Its prognostic performance was validated in TCGA and ICGC cohorts. Furthermore, Univariate and multivariate Cox regression analyses were used to identify independent prognostic factors in PAAD, and a prognostic nomogram was established.Results:The Kaplan-Meier analysis, ROC curve and C-index indicated the good performance of the CSC-related signature at predicting overall survival (OS). Univariate Cox regression and multivariate Cox regression revealed that the CSC-related signature was an independent prognostic factor in PAAD. The nomogram was superior to the risk model and AJCC stage in predicting OS. In terms of mutation and tumor immunity, patients in the high-risk group had higher tumor mutation burden (TMB) scores than patients in the low-risk group, and the immune score and the ESTIMATE score were significantly lower in the high-risk group. Moreover, according to the results of principal component analysis (PCA) and Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA), the low-risk and high-risk groups displayed different stemness statuses based on the risk model.Conclusion:Our study identified four CSC-related gene signatures and established a prognostic nomogram that reliably predicts OS in PAAD. The findings may support new ideas for screening therapeutic targets to inhibit stem characteristics and the development of PAAD.