Background:Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is one of the most malignant cancers worldwide. Despite the promising outcome of immune checkpoint inhibitors and agonist antibody therapies in different malignancies, PDAC exhibits high resistance due to its immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME). Ameliorating the TME is thus a rational strategy for PDAC therapy. The intratumoral application of oncolytic herpes simplex virus-1 (oHSV) upregulates pro-inflammatory macrophages and lymphocytes in TME, and enhances the responsiveness of PDAC to immunotherapy. However, the antitumor activity of oHSV remains to be maximized. The aim of this study is to investigate the effect of the CD40L armed oHSV on the tumor immune microenvironment, and ultimately prolong the survival of the PDAC mouse model.Methods:The membrane-bound form of murine CD40L was engineered into oHSV by CRISPR/Cas9-based gene editing. oHSV-CD40L induced cytopathic effect and immunogenic cell death were determined by microscopy and flow cytometry. The expression and function of oHSV-CD40L was assessed by reporter cell assay. The oHSV-CD40L was administrated intratumorally to the immune competent syngeneic PDAC mouse model, and the leukocytes in TME and tumor-draining lymph node were analyzed by multicolor flow cytometry. Intratumoral cytokines were determined by ELISA.Results:Intratumoral application of oHSV-CD40L efficiently restrained the tumor growth and prolonged the survival of the PDAC mouse model. In TME, oHSV-CD40L-treated tumor accommodated more maturated dendritic cells (DCs), which in turn activated T helper 1 and cytotoxic CD8+T cells in an interferon-γ-dependent and interleukin-12-dependent manner. In contrast, the regulatory T cells were significantly reduced in TME by oHSV-CD40L treatment. Repeated dosing and combinational therapy extended the lifespan of PDAC mice.Conclusion:CD40L-armed oncolytic therapy endues TME with increased DCs maturation and DC-dependent activation of cytotoxic T cells, and significantly prolongs the survival of the model mice. This study may lead to the understanding and development of oHSV-CD40L as a therapy for PDAC in synergy with immune checkpoint blockade.