Background:The prognosis of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma remains very poor. One possible reason for the short survival of patients with this disease is malnutrition, which can be present at the initial diagnosis, and continue after pancreatectomy. Then, it is important to improve nutritional status and to decrease adverse events during neoadjuvant and adjuvant chemotherapy. Active hexose correlated compound (AHCC) is a standardized extract of cultured Lentinula edodes mycelia, and is considered a potent biological response modifier in the treatment of cancer. To evaluate the survival impact of AHCC on the patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, we plan to perform this trial.Methods:This is a prospective multicenter phase II trial in patients with resectable/borderline resectable pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma to investigate the efficacy of AHCC regarding survival. Patients will begin taking AHCC or placebo on the first day of neoadjuvant therapy. AHCC or placebo will be continued until 2 years after surgery. The primary endpoint will be 2-year disease-free survival. The secondary endpoints are the completion rate, dose intensity, and adverse event profile of preoperative chemotherapy; response rate to preoperative chemotherapy; rate of decrease in tumor marker (carbohydrate antigen 19-9, carcinoembryonic antigen) concentrations during preoperative chemotherapy; entry rate, completion rate, dose intensity, and adverse event profile of adjuvant chemotherapy; safety of the protocol therapy (adverse effect of AHCC); 2-year overall survival rate; and nutrition score before and after preoperative chemotherapy, and before and after adjuvant chemotherapy. We will enroll 230 patients, and the study involves eight leading Japanese institutions that are all high-volume centers in pancreatic surgery.Discussion:AHCC is expected to function as a supportive food in patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, to reduce the proportion of severe adverse events related to neoadjuvant chemotherapy, and to increase the completion proportion of multimodal treatments, resulting in improved survival.Trial registration:The trial protocol has been registered in the protocol registration system at the Japan Registry of Clinical Trials (Trial ID: jRCTs051200029 ). At the time of the submission of this paper (October 2020), the protocol version is 2.0. The completion date is estimated to be November 2024.