Stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) has shown promising results in the treatment of pancreatic cancer and other solid tumors. However, wide adoption of SBRT remains limited largely due to uncertainty about the treatment's optimal fractionation schedules to elicit maximal tumor response while limiting the dose to adjacent structures. A small animal irradiator in combination with a clinically relevant oncological animal model could address these questions. Accurate delivery of X rays to animal tumors may be hampered by suboptimal image-guided targeting of the X-ray beam in vivo. Integration of bioluminescence imaging (BLI) into small animal irradiators in addition to standard cone-beam computed tomography (CBCT) imaging improves target identification and high-precision therapy delivery to deep tumors with poor soft tissue contrast, such as pancreatic tumors. Using bioluminescent BxPC3 pancreatic adenocarcinoma human cells grown orthotopically in mice, we examined the performance of a small animal irradiator equipped with both CBCT and BLI in delivering targeted, hypo-fractionated, multi-beam SBRT. Its targeting accuracy was compared with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-guided targeting based on co-registration between CBCT and corresponding sequential magnetic resonance scans, which offer greater soft tissue contrast compared with CT alone. Evaluation of our platform's BLI-guided targeting accuracy was performed by quantifying in vivo changes in bioluminescence signal after treatment as well as staining of ex vivo tissues with γH2AX, Ki67, TUNEL, CD31 and CD11b to assess SBRT treatment effects. Using our platform, we found that BLI-guided SBRT enabled more accurate delivery of X rays to the tumor resulting in greater cancer cell DNA damage and proliferation inhibition compared with MRI-guided SBRT. Furthermore, BLI-guided SBRT allowed higher animal throughput and was more cost effective to use in the preclinical setting than MRI-guided SBRT. Taken together, our preclinical platform could be employed in translational research of SBRT of pancreatic cancer.