Background:Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a malignant tumor with an extremely poor prognosis. Effective targets for anticancer therapy confirmed in PDAC are limited. However, the characteristics of genomics have not been fully elucidated in large-scale patients with PDAC from China.Methods:We collected both blood and tissue samples from 1080 Chinese patients with pancreatic cancer and retrospectively investigated the genomic landscape using next-generation sequencing (NGS).Findings:We found recurrent somatic mutations in KRAS (83.2%), TP53 (70.6%), CDKN2A (28.8%), SMAD4 (23.0%), ARID1A (12.8%) and CDKN2B (8.9%) in Chinese PDAC patients. Compared with primary pancreatic cancers, more genomic alterations accumulated especially cell cycle regulatory gene variants (45.4% vs 31.6%, P < 0.001) were observed in metastatic tumors. The most common mutation site of KRAS is p.G12D (43.6%) in pancreatic cancer. Patients with KRAS mutations were significantly associated with older age and mutations in the other three driver genes, while KRAS wild-type patients contained more fusion mutations and alternative mechanisms of RTK/Ras/MAPK pathway including a number of clinically targetable mutations. KRAS mutations in Chinese cohort were significantly lower than those in Western cohorts (all P < 0.05). A total of 252 (23.3%) patients with the core DNA damage response (DDR) gene mutations were detected. ATM (n =59, 5.5%) was the most frequent mutant DDR gene in patients with pancreatic cancer from China. Patients with germline DDR gene mutations were younger (P = 0.018), while patients with somatic DDR gene mutations were more likely to accumulate in metastatic lesions (P < 0.001) and had higher TMB levels (P < 0.001). In addition, patients with mutant DDR genes and patients carrying TP53 mutation were observed mutually exclusive (P < 0.001).Interpretation:We demonstrated the real-world genomic characteristics of large-scale patients with pancreatic cancer from China which may have promising implications for further clinical significance and drug development.Funding:The funders are listed in the Acknowledgement.