Pancreatic adenocarcinoma (PAAD) is a highly dangerous malignant tumor of the digestive tract, and difficult to diagnose, treat, and predict the prognosis. As we all know, tumor and inflammation can affect each other, and thus the inflammatory response in the microenvironment can be used to affect the prognosis. So far, the prognostic value of inflammatory response-related genes in PAAD is still unclear. Therefore, this study aimed to explore the inflammatory response-related genes for predicting the prognosis of PAAD. In this study, the mRNA expression profiles of PAAD patients and the corresponding clinical characteristics data of PAAD patients were downloaded from the public database. The least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) Cox analysis model was used to identify and construct the prognostic gene signature in The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) cohort. The PAAD patients used for verification are from the International Cancer Genome Consortium (ICGC) cohort. The Kaplan-Meier method was used to compare the overall survival (OS) between the high- and low-risk groups. Univariate and multivariate Cox analyses were performed to identify the independent predictors of OS. Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) was performed to obtain gene ontology (GO) terms and the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathways, and the correlation between gene expression and immune infiltrates was investigated via single sample gene set enrichment analysis (ssGSEA). The GEPIA database was performed to examine prognostic genes in PAAD. LASSO Cox regression analysis was used to construct a model of inflammatory response-related gene signature. Compared with the low-risk group, patients in the high-risk group had significantly lower OS. The receiver operating characteristic curve (ROC) analysis confirmed the signature's predictive capacity. Multivariate Cox analysis showed that risk score is an independent predictor of OS. Functional analysis shows that the immune status between the two risk groups is significantly different, and the cancer-related pathways were abundant in the high-risk group. Moreover, the risk score is significantly related to tumor grade, stage, and immune infiltration types. It was also obtained that the expression level of prognostic genes was significantly correlated with the sensitivity of cancer cells to anti-tumor drugs. In addition, there are significant differences in the expression of PAAD tissues and adjacent non-tumor tissues. The novel signature constructed from five inflammatory response-related genes can be used to predict prognosis and affect the immune status of PAAD. In addition, suppressing these genes may be a treatment option.