Purpose:The Numb protein plays a vital role in tumor development. The main aim of this study was to identify ATP11A, which is associated with the biological behavior of pancreatic cancer, and elucidate its relationship with Numb and the underlying mechanism behind this relationship.Methods:First, data retrieved from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEX) databases was used to investigate the expression of ATP11A mRNA and its relationship with Numb mRNA in pancreatic cancer. Western blot assays on 31 pairs of pancreatic cancer tissues and paracancerous tissues, and immunohistochemical assays on 81 pancreatic cancer specimens were performed in order to verify the expression of ATP11A in pancreatic cancer at the protein level. Next, ATP11A was overexpressed or knocked down to observe its effects on the invasion and migration ability of pancreatic cancer cells and the changes of downstream proteins. Rescue assays were conducted to determine the mechanism through which ATP11A affects Numb, ZEB1, Snail2 and other proteins. Furthermore, immunoprecipitation assays were performed to explore the interaction between ATP11A and Numb. Finally, pancreatic cancer cells were stimulated with TGFB1 and ATP11A expression was examined to explore whether the effect of ATP11A on EMT was TGFB dependent.Results:At the mRNA level, the expression of ATP11A in pancreatic cancer tissues was significantly higher than in normal pancreatic tissues (P< 0.001). ATP11A expression was also highly correlated with Numb expression (R = 0.676). At the protein level, ATP11A expression in pancreatic cancer tissues was significantly higher than that in paracancerous tissues (P= 0.0009), and high ATP11A expression was also correlated with a worse prognosis. Moreover, our results showed that ATP11A can promote the invasion and migration of pancreatic cancer cells. Additionally, ATP11A could positively regulate the expression of Numb PRRL, Snail2 and ZEB1 proteins. The rescue experiment results showed that the enhancement effect of ATP11A on ZEB1/Snail2 was suppressed by the specific knockdown of Numb PRRL. In addition, the immunoprecipitation results showed that ATP11A could specifically bind to Numb PRRL. The expression of ATP11A was also upregulated after TGFB stimulation, suggesting that the effect of ATP11A on EMT is TGFB dependent.Conclusion:ATP11A is significantly upregulated in pancreatic cancer tissues, where it promotes the invasion and migration ability of pancreatic cancer cells. It is also associated with adverse prognosis in pancreatic cancer. Furthermore, ATP11A affects the epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of pancreatic cancer by regulating the TGFB dependent Numb PRRL-ZEB1/Snail2 pathway.