Objective:We developed a dual-diffusing optical fiber probe (DDOFP), capable of uniformly illuminating the anatomical structure of pancreatic duct for photodynamic therapy (PDT) of pancreatic cancer in clinical settings.Background:Optical fiber presents a unique route for pancreatic PDT by enabling access to the pancreatic duct. For effective pancreatic PDT, the optical fiber should produce a uniform illumination covering of the pancreatic duct, while maintaining its transmission property under thermomechanical stresses in surgical environments.Methods:The transmission profiles of DDOFP were measured using a charge-coupled device (CCD) camera at two directions: front-spherical and side-cylindrical areas of the optical fiber. We simulated the change in transmission property by curved tube structures using optically transparent phantom. DDOFP was integrated with 19-gauge needle catheter that is commercially used as an optical guide to treat pancreatic cancer. The temperature of DDOFP was measured at the end face using a thermistor probe in the bovine tissue, while delivering laser energy of over 200 and 500 J.Results:DDOFP was customized to secure the inner diameter of the 19-gauge needle catheter of 686 μm to be integrated as a clinical device. The round ball lens fiber tip minimized the back-burn effect caused by blood carbonization during surgery and induced front-spherical diffusion. DDOFP produced uniform light illumination with intensity difference of <10%. When DDOFP was bent with a small curvature <15 mm, the transmission intensity was consistent. Under high-power laser transmission, DDOFP was found to be robust to cracking or deformation.Conclusions:DDOFP was customized for pancreatic PDT with superior thermomechanical property and uniform light illumination at both the front-spherical and side-cylindrical areas. This is the smallest clinically available optical fiber per our knowledge and officially approved by the Korea Food and Drug Administration (item approval number: 17-516). DDOFP can contribute immensely toward the efficient delivery of pancreatic PDT and photothermal therapy.