Background:The overall survival (OS) of pancreatic cancer (PC) patients with bone metastasis (BM) is extremely low, and it is pretty hard to treat bone metastasis. However, there are currently no effective nomograms to predict the diagnosis and prognosis of pancreatic cancer with bone metastasis (PCBM). Therefore, it is of great significance to establish effective predictive models to guide clinical practice.Methods:We screened patients from Surveillance Epidemiology and End Results (SEER) database between 2010 and 2016. The independent risk factors of PCBM were identified from univariable and multivariable logistic regression analyses, and univariate and multivariate Cox proportional hazards regression analyses were used to determine independent prognostic factors affecting the prognosis of PCBM. In addition, two nomograms were constructed to predict the risk and prognosis of PCBM. We used the area under the curve (AUC), C-index and calibration curve to determine the predictive accuracy and discriminability of nomograms. The decision curve analysis (DCA) and Kaplan-Meier(K-M) survival curves were employed to further confirm the clinical effectiveness of the nomogram.Results:Multivariable logistic regression analyses revealed that risk factors of PCBM included age, primary site, histological subtype, N stage, radiotherapy, surgery, brain metastasis, lung metastasis, and liver metastasis. Using Cox regression analyses, we found that independent prognostic factors of PCBM were age, race, grade, histological subtype, surgery, chemotherapy, and lung metastasis. We utilized nomograms to visually express data analysis results. The C-index of training cohort was 0.795 (95%CI: 0.758-0.832), whereas that of internal validation cohort was 0.800 (95%CI: 0.739-0.862), and the external validation cohort was 0.787 (95%CI: 0.746-0.828). Based on AUC of receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis, calibration plots, and decision curve analysis (DCA), we concluded that the risk and prognosis model of PCBM exhibits excellent performance.Conclusion:Nomogram is sufficiently accurate to predict the risk and prognostic factors of PCBM, allowing for individualized clinical decisions for future clinical work.