Background:Pancreatic cancer (PC) is a malignancy with a poor prognosis and high mortality. Surgical resection is the only "curative" treatment. However, only a minority of patients with PC can obtain surgery. Improving the overall survival (OS) rate of patients with PC is still a major challenge. Molecular biomarkers are a significant approach for diagnostic and predictive use in PCs. Several prediction models have been developed for patients newly diagnosed with PC that is operable or patients with advanced and metastatic PC; however, these models require further validation. Therefore, precise biomarkers are urgently required to increase the efficiency of predicting a disease-free survival (DFS), OS, and sensitivity to immunotherapy in PC patients and to improve the prognosis of PC.Methods:In the present study, we first evaluated the highly and selectively expressed targets in PC, using the GeoMxTM Digital Spatial Profiler (DSP) and then, we analyzed the roles of these targets in PCs using TCGA database.Results:LAMB3, FN1, KRT17, KRT19, and ANXA1 were defined as the top five upregulated targets in PC compared with paracancer. The TCGA database results confirmed the expression pattern of LAMB3, FN1, KRT17, KRT19, and ANXA1 in PCs. Significantly, LAMB3, FN1, KRT19, and ANXA1 but not KRT17 can be considered as biomarkers for survival analysis, univariate and multivariate Cox proportional hazards model, and risk model analysis. Furthermore, in combination, LAMB3, FN1, KRT19, and ANXA1 predict the DFS and, in combination, LAMB3, KRT19, and ANXA1 predict the OS. Immunotherapy is significant for PCs that are inoperable. The immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) analysis indicated that higher expressions of FN1 or ANXA1 are correlated with lower ICB response. In contrast, there are no significant differences in the ICB response between high and low expression of LAMB3 and KRT19.Conclusions:In conclusion, LAMB3, FN1, KRT19, and ANXA1 are good predictors of PC prognosis. Furthermore, FN1 and ANXA1 can be predictors of immunotherapy in PCs.