Background:Although gemcitabine has been considered as the first-line drug for advanced pancreatic cancer (PC), development of resistance to gemcitabine severely limits the effectiveness of this chemotherapy, and the underlying mechanism of gemcitabine resistance remains unclear. Various factors, such as ATP binding cassette (ABC) transporters, microRNAs and their downstream signaling pathways are included in chemoresistance to gemcitabine. This study investigated the potential mechanisms of microRNAs and ABC transporters related signaling pathways for PC resistance to gemcitabine both in vivo and in vitro.Methods:Immunohistochemistry and Western blotting were applied to detect the expression of ABC transporters. Molecular docking analysis was performed to explore whether gemcitabine interacted with ABC transporters. Gain-of-function and loss-of-function analyses were performed to investigate the functions of hsa-miR-3178 in vitro and in vivo. Bioinformatics analysis, Western blotting and dual-luciferase reporter assay were used to confirm the downstream regulatory mechanisms of hsa-miR-3178.Results:We found that P-gp, BCRP and MRP1 were highly expressed in gemcitabine-resistant PC tissues and cells. Molecular docking analysis revealed that gemcitabine can bind to the ABC transporters. Hsa-miR-3178 was upregulated in gemcitabine resistance PANC-1 cells as compared to its parental PANC-1 cells. Moreover, we found that hsa-miR-3178 promoted gemcitabine resistance in PC cells. These results were also verified by animal experiments. RhoB was down-regulated in gemcitabine-resistant PC cells and it was a downstream target of hsa-miR-3178. Kaplan-Meier survival curve showed that lower RhoB expression was significantly associated with poor overall survival in PC patients. Rescue assays demonstrated that RhoB could reverse hsa-miR-3178-mediated gemcitabine resistance. Interestingly, hsa-miR-3178 promoted gemcitabine resistance in PC by activating the PI3K/Akt pathway-mediated upregulation of ABC transporters.Conclusions:Our results indicate that hsa-miR-3178 promotes gemcitabine resistance via RhoB/PI3K/Akt signaling pathway-mediated upregulation of ABC transporters. These findings suggest that hsa-miR-3178 could be a novel therapeutic target for overcoming gemcitabine resistance in PC.