Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma is the third-leading cause of all cancer-related deaths in the US. While 20% of patients have resectable disease at diagnosis, improved control of systemic disease using effective chemotherapeutic regimens allows for aggressive operations involving complex vascular resection and reconstruction. A pancreas protocol computed tomography (PPCT) is the gold standard imaging modality in determining local resectability (degree of tumor-vessel involvement), however, it is limited by the inter-operator variability. While post-processing-3D-rendering helps, it does not allow for real-time dynamic assessment of resectability. A recent development in post-process-rendering called cinematic rendering (CR) overcomes this by utilizing advanced light modeling to generate photorealistic 3D images with enhanced details. Cinematic rendering allows for nuanced visualization of areas of interest. Our preliminary experience, as one of the first centers to incorporate the routine use of CR, has proven very useful in surgical planning. For local determination of resectability, vascular mapping allows for accurate assessment of major arteries and the portovenous system. For the portovenous anatomy it assists in determining the optimal surgical approach (extent of resection, appropriate technique for reconstruction, and need for mesocaval shunting). For arterial anatomy, vessel encasement either represents dissectible involvement via periadventitial dissection or true vessel invasion that is unresectable. CR could potentially provide superior ability than traditional PPCT to discern between the two. Additionally, CR allows for better 3D visualization of arterial anatomic variants which, if not appreciated preoperatively, increases risk of intraoperative ischemia and postoperative complications. Lastly, CR could help avoid unnecessary surgery by enhanced identification of occult metastatic disease that is metastatic disease that is otherwise not appreciated on a standard PPCT.