Tumor visualization with near-infrared fluorescence (NIRF) imaging might aid exploration and resection of pancreatic cancer by visualizing the tumor in real time. Conjugation of the near-infrared fluorophore IRDye800CW to the monoclonal antibody bevacizumab enables targeting of vascular endothelial growth factor A. The aim of this study was to determine whether intraoperative tumor-specific imaging of pancreatic cancer with the fluorescent tracer bevacizumab-800CW is feasible and safe.Methods:In this multicenter dose-escalation phase I trial, patients in whom pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) was suspected were administered bevacizumab-800CW (4.5, 10, or 25 mg) 3 d before surgery. Safety monitoring encompassed allergic or anaphylactic reactions and serious adverse events attributed to bevacizumab-800CW. Intraoperative NIRF imaging was performed immediately after laparotomy, just before and after resection of the specimen. Postoperatively, fluorescence signals on the axial slices and formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue blocks from the resected specimens were correlated with histology. Subsequently, tumor-to-background ratios (TBR) were calculated.Results:Ten patients with clinically suspected PDAC were enrolled in the study. Four of the resected specimens were confirmed PDACs; other malignancies were distal cholangiocarcinoma, ampullary carcinoma, and neuroendocrine tumors. No serious adverse events were related to bevacizumab-800CW. In vivo tumor visualization with NIRF imaging differed per tumor type and was nonconclusive. Ex vivo TBRs were 1.3, 1.5, and 2.5 for the 4.5-, 10-, and 25-mg groups, respectively.Conclusion:NIRF-guided surgery in patients with suspected PDAC using bevacizumab-IRDye800CW is feasible and safe. However, suboptimal TBRs were obtained because no clear distinction between pancreatic cancer from normal or inflamed pancreatic tissue was achieved. Therefore, a more tumor-specific tracer than bevacizumab-IRDye800CW for PDAC is preferred.