Background:Pancreatic cancer (PC) is one of the most common malignant types of cancer, with the lung being the frequent distant metastatic site. Currently, no population-based studies have been done on the risk and prognosis of pancreatic cancer with lung metastases (PCLM). As a result, we intend to create two novel nomograms to predict the risk and prognosis of PCLM.Methods:PC patients were selected from the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results Program (SEER) database from 2010 to 2016. A multivariable logistic regression analysis was used to identify risk factors for PCLM at the time of diagnosis. The multivariate Cox regression analysis was carried out to assess PCLM patient's prognostic factors for overall survival (OS). Following that, we used area under curve (AUC), time-dependent receiver operating characteristics (ROC) curves, calibration plots, consistency index (C-index), time-dependent C-index, and decision curve analysis (DCA) to evaluate the effectiveness and accuracy of the two nomograms. Finally, we compared differences in survival outcomes using Kaplan-Meier curves.Results:A total of 803 (4.22%) out of 19,067 pathologically diagnosed PC patients with complete baseline information screened from SEER database had pulmonary metastasis at diagnosis. A multivariable logistic regression analysis revealed that age, histological subtype, primary site, N staging, surgery, radiotherapy, tumor size, bone metastasis, brain metastasis, and liver metastasis were risk factors for the occurrence of PCLM. According to multivariate Cox regression analysis, age, grade, tumor size, histological subtype, surgery, chemotherapy, liver metastasis, and bone metastasis were independent prognostic factors for PCLM patients' OS. Nomograms were constructed based on these factors to predict 6-, 12-, and 18-months OS of patients with PCLM. AUC, C-index, calibration curves, and DCA revealed that the two novel nomograms had good predictive power.Conclusion:We developed two reliable predictive models for clinical practice to assist clinicians in developing individualized treatment plans for patients.