Background:Pancreatic adenocarcinoma (PAAD) is a treatment-refractory cancer with poor prognosis. Accumulating evidence suggests that squalene epoxidase (SQLE) plays a pivotal role in the development and progression of several cancer types in humans. However, the function and underlying mechanism of SQLE in PAAD remain unclear.Methods:SQLE expression data were downloaded from The Cancer Genome Atlas and the Genotype-Tissue Expression database. SQLE alterations were demonstrated based on the cBioPortal database. The upstream miRNAs regulating SQLE expression were predicted using starBase. The function of miRNA was validated by Western blotting and cell proliferation assay. The relationship between SQLE expression and biomarkers of the tumor immune microenvironment (TME) was analyzed using the TIMER and TISIDB databases. The correlation between SQLE and immunotherapy outcomes was assessed using Tumor Immune Dysfunction and Exclusion. The log-rank test was performed to compare prognosis between the high and low SQLE groups.Results:We demonstrated a potential oncogenic role of SQLE. SQLE expression was upregulated in PAAD, and it predicted poor disease-free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS) in patients with PAAD. "Amplification" was the dominant type of SQLE alteration. In addition, this alteration was closely associated with the OS, disease-specific survival, DFS, and progression-free survival of patients with PAAD. Subsequently, hsa-miR-363-3p was recognized as a critical microRNA regulating SQLE expression and thereby influencing PAAD patient outcome.In vitroexperiments suggested that miR-363-3p could knock down the expression of SQLE and inhibit the proliferation of PANC-1. SQLE was significantly associated with tumor immune cell infiltration, immune checkpoints (including PD-1 and CTLA-4), and biomarkers of the TME. KEGG and GO analyses indicated that cholesterol metabolism-associated RNA functions are implicated in the mechanisms of SQLE. SQLE was inversely associated with cytotoxic lymphocytes and predicted immunotherapy outcomes.Conclusions:Collectively, our results indicate that cholesterol metabolism-related overexpression of SQLE is strongly correlated with tumor immune infiltration and immunotherapy outcomes in patients with PAAD.