Background:Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) has the worst five-year overall survival rate among all cancer types. Acquired chemoresistance is considered one of the main reasons for this dismal prognosis, and the mechanism of chemoresistance is unknown.Methods:We previously identified a subpopulation of chemoresistant CD44high-expressing PDAC cells. Subsequently, we selected the candidate gene, gamma-aminobutyric acid receptor subunit Pi (GABRP), from three Gene Expression Omnibus datasets as the potential CD44 downstream target mediating the gemcitabine resistance. Loss and gain of function such as stable knockdown of CD44 by small hairpin (sh) RNA-mediated silencing technique and overexpression (O/E) of CD44s had been studied for comparing the gemcitabine resistance among CD44high-expressing cells, shCD44 cells, CD44low-expressing cells and O/E CD44s expressing cells. Functional assays including cell viability, colony formation, invasion, quantitative PCR and western blotting techniques were performed to validate the roles of CD44 and GABRP playing in mediating the gemcitabine resistance in pancreatic cancer cells.Results:CD44s depletion significantly reduced gemcitabine resistance in shCD44 single clone cells compared to CD44high-expressing cells. Knockdown of CD44 cells formed less colonies, became less invasive and remarkably decreased the mRNA level of GABRP. While overexpression of CD44s had the opposite effect on gemcitabine resistance, colony formation and invasive property. Of note, long term gemcitabine resistant pancreatic cancer cells detected increased expression of CD44 and GABRP. Clinically, GABRP expression was significantly upregulated in the tissues of patients with pancreatic cancer compared to the normal samples, and the overall survival rate of patients with low GABRP expression was longer. CD44 and GABRP co-expression was positively correlated in 178 pancreatic cancer patients.Conclusion:Our findings suggest that GABRP may serve as a CD44s downstream target to diminish gemcitabine resistance in pancreatic cancer, and both CD44s and GABRP molecules have the potential to become prognostic biomarkers for PDAC patients with gemcitabine resistance.