Purpose:Effective consolidative chemoradiation (CRT) regimens are lacking. In this phase 1 trial, we evaluated the safety and efficacy of nab-paclitaxel, capecitabine, and radiation therapy after induction chemotherapy in patients with locally advanced and borderline-resectable pancreatic cancer (LAPC and BRPC). Also, we evaluated a computed tomography (CT)-based biomarker of response.Methods and materials:Eligible patients had pathologically confirmed pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, underwent computed tomography-imaging, received a diagnosis of LAPC or BRPC, and received induction chemotherapy. Standard 3 + 3 study design was used, with 3 escalating nab-paclitaxel dose levels (50, 75, and 100 mg/m2) with concurrent capecitabine and RT in cohort sizes of 3 starting at the lowest dose. Dose limiting toxicity was defined as grade 3 or higher toxicity. Patients were restaged 4 to 6 weeks post-CRT completion, and surgical resection was offered to those with stable/responsive disease. We scored the tumor interface response (IR) postchemotherapy and post-CRT into type I (remained/became more defined) and type II (became less defined). Overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) from time of CRT were estimated using Kaplan-Meier method. P ≤ .05 was considered significant.Results:Twenty-three patients started and finished on protocol (LAPC = 14, BRPC = 9). No grade 3 and 4 toxicities were reported in level 1 (n = 3) or level 2 (n = 3) initial groups. Two patients in the initial level 3 group developed dose limiting toxicity, establishing level 2 dose as the maximal tolerated dose. Level 2 group was expanded for additional 15 patients (for a total of 23 on trial), 5 of whom developed grade 3 toxicities. Seven patients underwent surgical resection. Median OS and PFS were 21.2 and 8.1 months, respectively. Type I IR was associated with better OS (P = .004) and PFS (P = .03) compared with type II IR.Conclusions:We established the maximum tolerated dose for nab-paclitaxel in a consolidative CRT regimen for pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. Preliminary efficacy results warrant phase 2 trial evaluation. IR may be used for personalized treatment.