Background and study aims:This study was designed to compare the antitumor effects of anti-human MUC1 monoclonal antibody with those of anti-human CA199 monoclonal antibody coupled with drug-loaded polybutylcyanoacrylate nanoparticles on human pancreatic cancer cell lines and pancreatic cancer-bearing model animals and to screen more efficient targeting molecules.Patients and methods:Gemcitabine-loaded nanospheres were prepared by emulsion polymerization (GEM-PBCA-NP), and then, anti-MUC1 monoclonal antibody was coupled with GEM-PBCA-NP (MUC1-GEM-PBCA-NP), and anti-human CA199 monoclonal antibody was coupled with GEM-PBCA-NP (CA199-GEM-PBCA-NP), using the chemical crosslinking method. The cell-killing rates were detected using MTT assay. The changes in the tumor cell cycle and apoptosis after treatment were detected using flow cytometry. Then, the subcutaneous planting method was adopted to establish an animal model of pancreatic cancer: two nanometer microspheres were injected into the body of nude mice via the tail vein; the tumor suppression effect was detected after treatment; then, the groups were compared.Results:In vitro, the cell-killing rate of each experimental group was significantly different from that of the control group (P < 05). The MUC1-GEM-PBCA-NP group had a significantly higher cell-killing rate than the other groups (P < 05). The apoptosis rate of the MUC1-GEM-PBCA-NP treatment group was significantly higher than that of other groups (P < 05). In vivo, the tumor inhibition rate of the MUC1-GEM-PBCA-NP treatment group was 72.69% ± 4.29%, which was significantly higher than those of other groups (P < 0.05). The tumor inhibition rate of the CA199-GEM-PBCA-NP treatment group was 56.58% ± 5.11%, which was significantly higher than those of other control groups (P < 0.05). At the end of treatment, the average tumor mass of the MUC1-GEM-PBCA-NP treatment group was 433.55 ± 12.49 mg, which was significantly lower than those of other groups (P < 0.05).Conclusion:Compared with CA199-GEM-PBCA-NP, MUC1-GEM-PBCA-NP is more effective in vitro and in vivo. MUC1 could be a target molecule in treating pancreatic cancer.