Objectives:Transcriptional classifiers (Bailey, Moffitt and Collison) are key prognostic factors of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). Among these classifiers, the squamous, basal-like, and quasimesenchymal subtypes overlap and have inferior survival. Currently, only an invasive biopsy can determine these subtypes, possibly resulting in treatment delay. This study aimed to investigate the association between transcriptional subtypes and an externally validated preoperative CT-based radiomic prognostic score (Rad-score).Methods:We retrospectively evaluated 122 patients who underwent resection for PDAC. All treatment decisions were determined at multidisciplinary tumor boards. Tumor Rad-score values from preoperative CT were dichotomized into high or llow categories. The primary endpoint was the correlation between the transcriptional subtypes and the Rad-score using multivariable linear regression, adjusting for clinical and histopathological variables (i.e., tumor size). Prediction of overall survival (OS) was secondary endpoint.Results:The Bailey transcriptional classifier significantly associated with the Rad-score (coefficient = 0.31, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.13-0.44, p = 0.001). Squamous subtype was associated with high Rad-scores while non-squamous subtype was associated with low Rad-scores (adjusted p = 0.03). Squamous subtype and high Rad-score were both prognostic for OS at multivariable analysis with hazard ratios (HR) of 2.79 (95% CI: 1.12-6.92, p = 0.03) and 4.03 (95% CI: 1.42-11.39, p = 0.01), respectively.Conclusions:In patients with resectable PDAC, an externally validated prognostic radiomic model derived from preoperative CT is associated with the Bailey transcriptional classifier. Higher Rad-scores were correlated with the squamous subtype, while lower Rad-scores were associated with the less lethal subtypes (immunogenic, ADEX, pancreatic progenitor).Key points:• The transcriptional subtypes of PDAC have been shown to have prognostic importance but they require invasive biopsy to be assessed. • The Rad-score radiomic biomarker, which is obtained non-invasively from preoperative CT, correlates with the Bailey squamous transcriptional subtype and both are negative prognostic biomarkers. • The Rad-score is a promising non-invasive imaging biomarker for personalizing neoadjuvant approaches in patients undergoing resection for PDAC, although additional validation studies are required.