Kinesin family member 2 C (KIF2C), a modulator of microtubule depolymerization, bipolar spindle formation, and chromosome segregation, has been reported to play roles in cancer biology. Moreover, many articles have reported that KIF2C expression is closely associated with the progression and prognosis of a variety of tumors. However, the role of KIF2C in pancreatic cancer is unclear. In this study, we used various databases to investigate the correlation between KIF2C expression and pancreatic cancer.Methods:First, we determined the location of KIF2C in tumour cell lines via The Human Protein Atlas and immunofluorescence staining. Then, we analysed the GEPIA2 and TISIDB databases to assess KIF2C expression in pancreatic cancer cells and its correlation with the prognosis of pancreatic cancer. Through the Linkdeomics database, we identified the mRNAs whose expression was correlated with KIF2C expression. Next, we used the miRDB, miRanda, miRTairBase, Targetscan and miRmap databases to predict miRNAs that interact with KIF2C. Furthermore, we performed PPI analysis of KIF2C using the STRING database and Cytoscape Mcode software. The TISIDB database was used to analyse the correlation between KIF2C expression and immunity in pancreatic cancer. Finally, datasets GSE62452 and PACA-UA(https://xenabrowser.net/datapages/?cohort=PACA-AU&removeHub=http%3 A%2 F%2F127.0.0.1%3A7222) were used to validate the results of survival analysis and immune analysis.Results:It was revealed that KIF2C was mainly located in the nuclei of pancreatic cancer cells. We found that the KIF2C mRNA expression levels in pancreatic cancer tissues were higher than those in normal tissues. Notably, elevated KIF2C mRNA expression was significantly associated with decreased overall survival and disease-free survival in patients with pancreatic cancer. Furthermore, KIF2C expression was closely related to the expression of multiple proteins and miRNAs in pancreatic cancer tissues. In addition, KIF2C expression was closely related to CD4+T cells. These results indicated that the expression of KIF2C was closely related to the prognosis of pancreatic cancer.Conclusion:KIF2C expression is negatively correlated with the prognosis of pancreatic cancer patients, and one of the main mechanisms underlying this relationship may be related to the tumor immune microenvironment.