Objective:Predicting R status before surgery for pancreatic cancer (PDAC) patients with upfront surgery and neoadjuvant therapy.Summary background data:Negative surgical margins (R0) are a key predictor of long-term outcomes in PDAC.Methods:Patients undergoing pancreatic resection with curative intent for PDAC were identified. Using the CT scans from the time of diagnosis, the 2019 NCCN borderline resectability criteria were compared to novel criteria: presence of any alteration of the superior mesenteric-portal vein (SMPV) and perivascular stranding of the superior mesenteric artery (SMA). Accuracy of predicting R status was evaluated for both criteria. Patient baseline characteristics, surgical, histopathological parameters, and long-term overall survival (OS) after resection were evaluated.Results:A total of 593 patients undergoing pancreatic resections for PDAC between 2010 and 2018 were identified. Three hundred and twenty-five (54.8%) patients underwent upfront surgery, whereas 268 (45.2%) received neoadjuvant therapy. In upfront resected patients, positive SMA stranding was associated with 56% margin positive resection rates, whereas positive SMA stranding and SMPV alterations together showed a margin positive resection rate of 75%. In contrast to these criteria, the 2019 NCCN borderline criteria failed to predict margin status. In patients undergoing neoadjuvant therapy, only perivascular SMA stranding remained a predictor of margin positive resection, leading to a rate of 33% R+ resections. Perivascular SMA stranding was related to higher clinical T stage (P = 0.003) and clinical N stage (P = 0.043) as well as perineural invasion (P = 0.022). SMA stranding was associated with worse survival in both patients undergoing upfront surgery (36 vs 22 months, P = 0.002) and neoadjuvant therapy (47 vs 34 months, P = 0.050).Conclusions:The novel criteria were accurate predictors of R status in PDAC patients undergoing upfront resection. After neoadjuvant treatment, likelihood of positive resection margins is approximately halved, and only perivascular SMA stranding remained a predictive factor.