Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is among the deadliest malignancies and potentially curable only with radical surgical resection at early stages. The tumor microenvironment has been shown to be central to the development and progression of PDAC. A better understanding of how early human PDAC metabolically communicates with its environment and differs from healthy pancreas could help improve PDAC diagnosis and treatment. Here we performed deep proteomic analyses from diagnostic specimens of operable, treatment-naïve PDAC patients (n = 14), isolating four tissue compartments by laser-capture microdissection: PDAC lesions, tumor-adjacent but morphologically benign exocrine glands, and connective tissues neighboring each of these compartments. Protein and pathway levels were compared between compartments and with control pancreatic proteomes. Selected targets were studied immunohistochemically in the 14 patients and in additional tumor microarrays, and lipid deposition was assessed by nonlinear label-free imaging (n = 16). Widespread downregulation of pancreatic secretory functions was observed, which was paralleled by high cholesterol biosynthetic activity without prominent lipid storage in the neoplastic cells. Stromal compartments harbored ample blood apolipoproteins, indicating abundant microvasculature at the time of tumor removal. The features best differentiating the tumor-adjacent exocrine tissue from healthy control pancreas were defined by upregulation of proteins related to lipid transport. Importantly, histologically benign exocrine regions harbored the most significant prognostic pathways, with proteins involved in lipid transport and metabolism, such as neutral cholesteryl ester hydrolase 1, associating with shorter survival. In conclusion, this study reveals prognostic molecular changes in the exocrine tissue neighboring pancreatic cancer and identifies enhanced lipid transport and metabolism as its defining features.Significance:In clinically operable pancreatic cancer, regions distant from malignant cells already display proteomic changes related to lipid transport and metabolism that affect prognosis and may be pharmacologically targeted.