Background:Methyltransferase-like 3 (METTL3) expression could be found in various normal and cancerous tissues. As of now, the clinical significance of METTL3 expression in human pancreatic cancer (PC) tissues still remains to be understood. Our present study aims to investigate the prognostic value and clinical implications of METTL3 expression in PC tissues.Methods:The TCGA, GTEx, and GEO public databases were used to study the mRNA expression level of the m6A family members and its relationship among PC tissues and normal pancreatic tissue. The immunohistochemistry was used to analyze the difference of METTL3 expression between cancer tissues and adjacent normal tissues. The prognostic value was evaluated by using the Log-rank survival analysis and Cox model analysis. PAAD samples from TCGA and GEO databases were used to perform the immune infiltration analysis and gene set enrichment analysis based on the genes that were highly correlated with METTL3.Results:Based on the analysis of TCGA, GTEx, and GEO public database, we found that the m6A family members showed a higher correlation in PC tissues compared to normal pancreatic tissues, and the mRNA expression level of the m6A family members showed a significant difference between PC tissues and adjacent normal tissues. Moreover, scRNA-seq data indicated that METTL3 showed a higher expression level in malignant epithelial cells. Our immunohistochemistry results also confirmed that the intensity of METTL3 immunostaining in PC tissues was significantly higher than that in adjacent normal tissues (P = 0.015). The overall survival (OS) of PC patients with high expression of METTL3 protein were significantly poorer than those with low expression of METTL3 protein (HR = 1.788, 95% CI 1.071-2.984, P = 0.026). Further analysis of PC data from the database showed that METTL3 expression was associated with a variety of tumor-infiltrating immune cells and was involved in m6A modification and metabolism in PC tissues.Conclusion:Increased METTL3 expression at the protein level could be found in PC tissues, suggesting that the METTL3 expression was involved in the progression of PC and could serve as an important marker for prognostic prediction of this malignancy.