Pancreatic intraductal tubulopapillary neoplasm (ITPN) is a recently recognized intraductal neoplasm. This study aimed to clarify the clinicopathologic and molecular features of this entity, based on a multi-institutional cohort of 16 pancreatic ITPNs and associated adenocarcinomas. The genomic profiles were analyzed using histology-driven multi-regional sequencing to provide insight on tumor heterogeneity and evolution. Furthermore, an exploratory transcriptomic characterization was performed on eight invasive adenocarcinomas. The clinicopathologic parameters and molecular alterations were further analyzed based on survival indices. The main findings were as follows: 1) the concomitant adenocarcinomas, present in 75% of cases, were always molecularly associated with the intraductal components. These data definitively establish ITPN as origin of invasive pancreatic adenocarcinoma; 2) alterations restricted to infiltrative components included mutations in chromatin remodeling genes ARID2, ASXL1, and PBRM1, and ERBB2-P3H4 fusion; 3) pancreatic ITPN can arise in the context of genetic syndromes, such as BRCA-germline and Peutz-Jeghers syndrome; 4) mutational profile: mutations in the classical PDAC drivers are present, but less frequently, in pancreatic ITPN; 5) novel genomic alterations were observed, including amplification of the Cyclin and NOTCH family genes and ERBB2, fusions involving RET and ERBB2, and RB1 disruptive variation; 6) chromosomal alterations: the most common was 1q gain (75% of cases); 7) by transcriptome analysis, ITPN-associated adenocarcinomas clustered into three subtypes that correlate with the activation of signaling mechanism pathways and tumor microenvironment, displaying squamous features in their majority; and 8) TP53 mutational status is a marker for adverse prognosis. ITPNs are precursor lesions of pancreatic cancer with a high malignant transformation risk. A personalized approach for patients with ITPN should recognize that such neoplasms could arise in the context of genetic syndromes. BRCA alterations, ERBB2 and RET fusions, and ERBB2 amplification are novel targets in precision oncology. The TP53 mutation status can be used as a prognostic biomarker.