We explored the potential of cellulose nanofiber (CNF) for designing prolonged-release, thin-film drug delivery systems (TF-DDS). These delivery systems can be used as locally deployable drug-releasing scaffolds for achieving spatial and temporal control over therapeutic concentration in target tissues. Using doxorubicin (DOX) as a model anticancer drug, CNF-based TF-DDS were prepared using different film-formation processes, such as solvent casting and lyophilization. Formulations were prepared with or without the incorporation of additional macromolecular additives, such as gelatin, to include further biomechanical functionality. We studied the films for their mechanical properties, thermal stability, wettability, porosity and in vitro drug release properties. Our experimental results showed that CNF-based films, when prepared via solvent casting method, showed optimized performance in terms of DOX loading, and prolonged-release than those prepared via lyophilization-based fabrication processes. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) analysis of the CNF-based films showed uniform distribution of fiber entanglement, which provided the scaffolds with sufficient porosity and tortuosity contributing to the sustained release of the drug from the delivery system. We also observed that surface layering of gelatin on CNF films via dip-coating significantly increased the mechanical strength and reduced the wettability of the films, and as such, affected drug release kinetics. The performance of the TF-DDS was evaluated in-vitro against two pancreatic cancer cell lines, i.e. MIA PaCa-2 and PANC-1. We observed that, along with the enhancement of mean dissolution time (MDT) of DOX, CNF-based TF-DDS were able to suppress the proliferation of pancreatic cancer cells in a time-dependent fashion, indicating that the drug liberated from the films were therapeutically active against cancer cells. Additionally, TF-DDS were also tested ex-vivo on patient-derived xenograft (PDX) model of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). We observed that DOX released from the TF-DDS was able to reduce Ki-67 positive, pancreatic cancer cells in these models.