Objectives:The aim of the study was to assess the association of circulating tumor cells (CTCs) with survival as a biomarker in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) within the context of a delay in the initiation of adjuvant therapy.Background:Outcomes in patients with PDAC remain poor and are driven by aggressive systemic disease. Although systemic therapies improve survival in resected patients, factors such as a delay in the initiation of adjuvant therapy are associated with worse outcomes. CTCs have previously been shown to be predictive of survival.Methods:A retrospective study was performed on PDAC patients enrolled in the prospective CircuLating tUmor cellS in pancreaTic cancER trial (NCT02974764) on CTC-dynamics at the Johns Hopkins Hospital. CTCs were isolated based on size (isolation by size of epithelial tumor cells; Rarecells) and counted and characterized by subtype using immunofluorescence. The preoperative and postoperative blood samples were used to identify 2 CTC types: epithelial CTCs (eCTCs), expressing pancytokeratin, and transitional CTCs (trCTCs), expressing both pancytokeratin and vimentin. Patients who received adjuvant therapy were compared with those who did not. A delay in the receipt of adjuvant therapy was defined as the initiation of therapy ≥8 weeks after surgical resection. Clinicopathologic features, CTCs characteristics, and outcomes were analyzed.Results:Of 101 patients included in the study, 43 (42.5%) experienced a delay in initiation and 20 (19.8%) did not receive adjuvant therapy. On multivariable analysis, the presence of trCTCs ( P =0.002) and the absence of adjuvant therapy ( P =0.032) were associated with worse recurrence-free survival (RFS). Postoperative trCTC were associated with poorer RFS, both in patients with a delay in initiation (12.4 vs 17.9 mo, P =0.004) or no administration of adjuvant chemotherapy (3.4 vs NR, P =0.016). However, it was not associated with RFS in patients with timely initiation of adjuvant chemotherapy ( P =0.293).Conclusions:Postoperative trCTCs positivity is associated with poorer RFS only in patients who either experience a delay in initiation or no receipt of adjuvant therapy. This study suggests that a delay in the initiation of adjuvant therapy could potentially provide residual systemic disease (trCTCs) a window of opportunity to recover from the surgical insult. Future studies are required to validate these findings and explore the underlying mechanisms involved.