Chemotherapy is the main method for controlling pancreatic cancer metastasis but the prevalent chemotherapy resistance limits its utilization. The response of oxidation and inflammation often promotes pancreatic cancer progression and chemo-resistance. It is critical to explore the potential natural products with few side effects to control inflammatory responses and understand the related mechanisms. Quercetin is a flavonoid widely found in numerous vegetables, fruits, and foods and is thought to have antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties, which may be associated with improvement of chemotherapy sensitivity during pancreatic cancer treatment. Quercetin may sensitize pancreatic cancer cells to the chemotherapeutic agents, including bromodomain and extraterminal domain inhibitors (BETI), daunorubicin, gemcitabine, sulforaphane, doxorubicin, and tumor necrosis factor-related signaling apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL). Meanwhile, during the chemo-resistance therapy, many signaling molecules are involved with toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4)-mediated oxidative and inflammatory pathway. The effects of quercetin on other oxidative and inflammatory pathways were also explored. Quercetin may exert antitumor activity during the prevention of pancreatic cancer progression by regulating oxidative and inflammatory networks, which can promote immune escape of cancer cells by inducing immunosuppressive cytokines. Studying these patterns will help us to better understand the functional role of quercetin in the improvement of pancreatic cancer chemo-sensitivity. PRACTICAL APPLICATIONS: Chemotherapy is the major way for treating pancreatic cancer metastasis but the prevalent chemotherapy resistance caused by oxidative and inflammatory responses limits its utilization. It is necessary to explore the potential natural products with few side effects to prevent the oxidative and inflammatory responses. Quercetin is a flavonoid widely found in numerous vegetables, fruits, and foods and is thought to have antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties, which may be associated with improvement of chemotherapy sensitivity of pancreatic cancer treatment by sensitizing pancreatic cancer cells to various chemotherapeutic agents via the regulation of oxidative and inflammatory networks. Studying these patterns will help us to better understand the functional role of quercetin in the improvement of pancreatic cancer chemo-sensitivity.