The use of siRNA therapeutics to treat cancer is a very promising approach. However, specific delivery of siRNAs to tumors remains a major challenge. The recent success of siRNA delivery to the liver has incentivized the development of biomaterials for siRNA delivery into tumors. Here, we report a new class of amino acid-modified lipids for siRNA delivery to cancer cells. Eight lipids were developed by headgroup modification with histidine and lysine. The lipids were screened in PC3-luciferase stable cells for gene silencing and cellular cytotoxicity study. The best lipid LHHK shows a pKa of 6.08, which is within the optimal pKa range of lipid nanoparticles (LNPs) for siRNA delivery. The LHHK LNP protects siRNA from serum degradation for up to 24 h and shows higher endosomal release and better cellular uptake compared to other lysine-modified lipids in PC3 cells. The LHHK LNP exhibits significant silencing activity of IKKα and IKBKE in prostate cancer and pancreatic cancer, respectively. Moreover, the LHHK LNP encapsulating IKBKE siRNA inhibits cell proliferation of pancreatic cancer cells and suppresses the tumor progression in a pancreatic cancer mouse model. STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: Lipid nanoparticle (LNP) is a promising platform for siRNA delivery. However, LNP is generally associated with high systemic toxicity. As a result, efficient and biodegradable lipids are highly needed for siRNA-based cancer therapy. Herein, we develop amino acid-modified biodegradable lipids. These lipids show very low cellular toxicity and high transfection efficiency. The best lipid LHHK shows a pKa of 6.08, which is within the optimal pKa range of LNPs for siRNA delivery. The LHHK LNP efficiently silences IKKα and IKBKE in prostate and pancreatic cancer, respectively. Moreover, the LHHK LNP encapsulating IKBKE siRNA inhibits cell proliferation and suppresses tumor growth of pancreatic cancer in vivo. These results suggest that amino acid-modified lipids possess a great potential for siRNA delivery in cancer therapy.