Background:Pancreatic adenocarcinoma (PAAD) is one of the most common malignant tumors of the digestive tract. Pyroptosis is a newly discovered programmed cell death that highly correlated with the prognosis of tumors. However, the prognostic value of pyroptosis in PAAD remains unclear.Methods:A total of 178 pancreatic cancer PAAD samples and 167 normal samples were obtained from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) databases. The "DESeq2" R package was used to identify differntially expressed pyroptosis-related genes between normal pancreatic samples and PAAD samples. The prognostic model was established in TCGA cohort based on univariate Cox and the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) Cox regression analyses, which was validated in test set from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) cohort. Univariate independent prognostic analysis and multivariate independent prognostic analysis were used to determine whether the risk score can be used as an independent prognostic factor to predict the clinicopathological features of PAAD patients. A nomogram was used to predict the survival probability of PAAD patients, which could help in clinical decision-making. The R package "pRRophetic" was applied to calculate the drug sensitivity of each samples from high- and low-risk group. Tumor immune infiltration was investigated using an ESTIMATE algorithm. Finally, the pro-tumor phenotype of GSDMC was explored in PANC-1 and CFPAC-1 cells.Result:On the basis of univariate Cox and LASSO regression analyses, we constructed a risk model with identified five pyroptosis-related genes (IL18, CASP4, NLRP1, GSDMC, and NLRP2), which was validated in the test set. The PAAD samples were divided into high-risk and low-risk groups on the basis of the risk score's median. According to Kaplan Meier curve analysis, samples from high-risk groups had worse outcomes than those from low-risk groups. The time-dependent receiver operating characteristics (ROC) analysis revealed that the risk model could predict the prognosis of PAAD accurately. A nomogram accompanied by calibration curves was presented for predicting 1-, 2-, and 3-year survival in PAAD patients. More importantly, 4 small molecular compounds (A.443654, PD.173074, Epothilone. B, Lapatinib) were identified, which might be potential drugs for the treatment of PAAD patients. Finally, the depletion of GSDMC inhibits the proliferation, invasion, and migration of pancreatic adenocarcinoma cells.Conclusion:In this study, we developed a pyroptosis-related prognostic model based on IL18, CASP4, NLRP1, NLRP2, and GSDMC , which may be helpful for clinicians to make clinical decisions for PAAD patients and provide valuable insights for individualized treatment. Our result suggest that GSDMC may promote the proliferation and migration of PAAD cell lines. These findings may provide new insights into the roles of pyroptosis-related genes in PAAD, and offer new therapeutic targets for the treatment of PAAD.