The incidence of highly aggressive pancreatic cancer is increasing across the globe and is projected to increase to 18.6% by 2050. The mortality rate for this form of cancer is very high and the 5 y relative survival rate is only about 9%-10%. The 3D pancreatic cancer microenvironment exerts a major influence on the poor survival rate. A key factor is the prevention of the penetration of the chemotherapeutic drugs in the three-dimensional (3D) microenvironment leading to the development of chemoresistance which is a major contributor to the survival rates. Hence,in vitrostudies using 3D cultures represent a better approach to understand the effect of therapeutic formulations on the cancer cells when compared to conventional 2D cultures. In the present study, we have explored three different conditions for the development of a 3D pancreatic tumour spheroid model from MiaPaCa-2 and PanC1 cells cultured for 10 days using Matrigel matrix. This optimized spheroid model was employed to evaluate a multi-functional nanotheranostic system fabricated using chitosan nanoparticles co-encapsulated with the chemotherapeutic agent gemcitabine and gold-capped iron oxide nanoparticles for multimodal imaging. The effect of the single and multiple-dose regimens of the theranostic system on the viability of 3D spheroids formed from the two pancreatic cancer cell lines was studied. It was observed that the 3D tumour spheroids cultured for 10 days exhibited resistance towards free gemcitabine drug, unlike the 2D culture. The administration of the multifunctional nanotheranostic system on alternate days effectively reduced the cancer cell viability after five doses to about 20% when compared with other groups. The repeated doses of the nanotheranostic system were found to be more effective than the single dose. Cell line-based differences in internalization of the carrier was also reflected in their response to the nanocarrier with PanC1 showing better sensitivity to the treatment.In vivostudies revealed that the combination of gemcitabine and magnetic field induced hypothermia produced superior regression in cancer when compared with the chemotherapeutic agent alone by a combination of activating the pro-apoptotic pathway and heat-induced necrosis. Our results reveal that this multi-functional system holds promise to overcome the current challenges to treat pancreatic cancers.