Background:It has been reported that signaling from the nerve growth factor (NGF) pathway associated with peripheral nerves is able to contribute to perineural invasion (PNI) of pancreatic cancer (PC). Nevertheless, the underlying mechanism by which NGF leads to PNI remained poorly understood.Methods:Western blotting was employed to determine NGF level in PC and paracarcinoma tissues and in PC cell lines as well as pancreatic ductal epithelial cells. MiaPaCa-2 and CFPAC-1 cells were treated with 100 ng/ml of NGF or the NGF inhibitor Tanezumab for 24 h, CCK-8 and Transwell assays were employed to test cell proliferation, invasion, and migration, respectively. TrkA expression was knocked down in MiaPaCa-2 and dorsal root ganglion (DRG) cells treated with NGF to determine its effect on the Warburg effect. To reveal that the NGF-TrkA signaling pathway was closely associated with PC PNI,in vitroneuroinvasion model was established by using MiaPaCa-2 cells via coculturing DRG cells in Matrigel. Further, exosomes were extracted from PC cells and identified by examining the levels of specific markers for exosomes. Then RT-qPCR was applied to test miR-21-5p level in tumor derived exosomal (TDE-miR-21-5p). RIP assay was performed to validate NGF and miR-21 binding ability in MiaPaCa-2 cells. Rescue experiments were performed by using coprocessing of Tanezumab and miR-21-5p mimic on MiaPaCa-2 cells, followed by coculture with DRG cells. Subsequently, we used a model of neuroinvasion in nude mice to assess the effect of NGFin vivoon tumor nerve invasion as well as on nociceptive transmission.Results:NGF level was preeminently higher in PC tissues and cell lines than in paracarcinoma tissues and normal pancreatic epithelial cell lines. NGF promoted MiaPaCa-2 and CFPAC-1 cell invasion and migration, while Tanezumab treatment showed the opposite results. Besides, NGF binding to TrkA receptors encouraged the intracellular Warburg effect in PC and DRG cells. TrkA blocking-up could restrain NGF induced PC cell migration and neural invasion. Mechanistically, NGF could upregulate TDE-miR-21-5p levels, and DRG cells took up TDE to activate the Warburg effect and stimulate nociceptor gene expression. miR-21-5p inhibitor could abolish the facilitative effect of NGF on PNI in MiaPaCa-2 cells.In vivotumorigenesis experiments, Tanezumab markedly alleviated nerve invasion of PC cells as well as relieved nociceptive conduction in animal models.Conclusions:These findings displayed that NGF/TrkA encouraged the neuroinvasive potential of PC cells by activating the Warburg effect in DRG cells through upregulation of TDE-miR-21-5p expression.