Purpose:Cases of pancreatic cancer are increasing, and the risk of developing this disease reportedly increases with age. In recent years, there has been an increasing number of reports on physical function in patients with pancreatic cancer. Methods such as the 6-min walk distance (6 MWD) should be established to evaluate physical function, as a decline in exercise capacity is an important index in these patients. Recently, the 6 MWD has also been used to evaluate physical function in patients with pancreatic cancer. In healthy older adults, a decrease in 6 MWD is reportedly associated with intrinsic capacity and health status. Such factors make assessing 6 MWD important. However, the measurement of 6 MWD requires a sizable measurement environment. The five times sit to stand (FTSTS) test is a simple method that can be performed using a chair. FTSTS is hypothesized to be a useful assessment scale in patients with pancreatic cancer because it is easy to estimate the decline in physical function in clinical practice if the decline in 6 MWD can be estimated by evaluating FTSTS. The study's purpose was to clarify this hypothesis and ascertain the cutoff required to determine the decrease in 6 MWD in clinical practice.Methods:Sixty consecutive patients with preoperative pancreatic cancer who were assessed for physical function were studied. 6 MWD (< 400 m) was the objective variable, and binary logistic regression analysis was performed, with age, BMI, sex, FTSTS, and HGS as explanatory variables. Receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis was performed for the explanatory variables, which were found to be significant based on logistic regression analysis. The area under the curve (AUC) was also calculated. Sensitivity, specificity, negative predictive value (NPV), and positive predictive value (PPV) were evaluated. This study was approved by Hiroshima University Hospital's ethics committee (approval number: E808-1).Results:Fifty-seven of the 60 patients were included in the analysis. Logistic regression analysis showed that FTSTS was a significant explanatory variable; ROC curve analysis showed an AUC of 0.872 and a cutoff value of 8.98 s. The sensitivity, specificity, PPV, and NPV were 82.4%, 80.0%, 63.6%, and 91.4%, respectively.Conclusions:A decrease in 6 MWD in preoperative pancreatic cancer patients can be identified by performing FTSTS.