Purpose:Postoperative delirium (POD) commonly occurs after major abdominal surgery and is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. There have been many studies on the relationship between POD and various surgeries, but research on POD after pancreatic cancer surgery is limited. The aim of this study was to identify the incidence and risk factors of POD after pancreatic cancer surgery.Methods:The subjects of this retrospective analysis were 196 patients who were transferred for postoperative care after pancreatic cancer surgery, to a 12-bed critical care medicine ward at Shandong Provincial Hospital, affiliated with Shandong First Medical University, between January 2015 and December 2019. The patients were divided according to whether they suffered POD into a delirium group and a non-delirium group. Delirium was assessed using the Confusion Assessment Method for the Intensive Care Unit and two independent medical practitioners analyzed all the data. Univariate and multiple logistic regression analyses were performed.Results:The overall delirium incidence was 20.41%, which increased to 29.03% for patients aged ≥ 70 years. POD was associated with age, smoking, the American Society of Anesthesiologists classification, the Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation II score, and the TNM stage of the cancer. The variables concerning sex, drinking, hypertension, a history of cerebral disease, surgery type, operation time, amount of bleeding, and the intraoperative use of dexmedetomidine did not differ significantly between the two groups. There was no significant difference in the length of ICU stay, with the exclusion of long-term stay for complications, between the groups, but POD tended to prolong the postoperative hospital stay and increase the risk of mortality. There was also a gradual decline in the incidence of POD between 2015 and 2019, especially from 2015 to 2018, after preventive measures were implemented.Conclusion:POD is related to many risk factors and worthy of attention. Appropriate management can reduce its incidence or at least shorten its duration.