Background:Pancreatic cancer (PC) is a highly lethal malignancy regarding digestive system, which is the fourth leading factor of cancer-related mortalities in the globe. Prognosis is poor due to diagnosis at advanced disease stage, low rates of surgical resection, and resistance to traditional radiotherapy and chemotherapy. In order to develop novel therapeutic strategies, further elucidation of the molecular mechanisms underlying PC chemoresistance is required. Ribosomal RNA biogenesis has been implicated in tumorigenesis. Small nucleolar RNAs (snoRNAs) is responsible for post-transcriptional modifications of ribosomal RNAs during biogenesis, which have been identified as potential markers of various cancers. Here, we investigate the U3 snoRNA-associated protein RRP9/U3-55 K along with its role in the development of PC and gemcitabine resistance.Methods:qRT-PCR, western blot and immunohistochemical staining assays were employed to detect RRP9 expression in human PC tissue samples and cell lines. RRP9-overexpression and siRNA-RRP9 plasmids were constructed to test the effects of RRP9 overexpression and knockdown on cell viability investigated by MTT assay, colony formation, and apoptosis measured by FACS and western blot assays. Immunoprecipitation and immunofluorescence staining were utilized to demonstrate a relationship between RRP9 and IGF2BP1. A subcutaneous xenograft tumor model was elucidated in BALB/c nude mice to examine the RRP9 role in PC in vivo.Results:Significantly elevated RRP9 expression was observed in PC tissues than normal tissues, which was negatively correlated with patient prognosis. We found that RRP9 promoted gemcitabine resistance in PC in vivo and in vitro. Mechanistically, RRP9 activated AKT signaling pathway through interacting with DNA binding region of IGF2BP1 in PC cells, thereby promoting PC progression, and inducing gemcitabine resistance through a reduction in DNA damage and inhibition of apoptosis. Treatment with a combination of the AKT inhibitor MK-2206 and gemcitabine significantly inhibited tumor proliferation induced by overexpression of RRP9 in vitro and in vivo.Conclusions:Our data reveal that RRP9 has a critical function to induce gemcitabine chemoresistance in PC through the IGF2BP1/AKT signaling pathway activation, which might be a candidate to sensitize PC cells to gemcitabine. Video abstract.