According to molecular profiling studies, a considerable number of patients with pancreatic cancer harbor potentially actionable mutations. However, there are limited relevant data from the Korean population. We assessed the molecular profiles of patients with pancreatic cancer in Korea. This study collected molecular profiling data from patients with pancreatic cancer who visited Seoul National University Bundang Hospital between March 2018 and August 2020. Formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tumor specimens were sequenced using a targeted next-generation sequencing (NGS) platform. Cancer-associated mutations were analyzed, and potentially actionable mutations were identified. Potentially actionable mutations were classified into "highly actionable" and "modifies options" based on the Know Your Tumor registry study. In total, 87 patients with NGS tumor panel data were identified. Sixty-one patients (70.1%) had metastatic disease at the time of tissue acquisition. Tissues were obtained from the primary tumors and metastatic sites in 41 (47.1%) and 46 (52.9%) patients, respectively. At least one pathogenic mutation was reported in 86 patients (98.9%). The frequencies of four common mutations in our cohort were similar to those in The Cancer Genome Atlas data. Potentially actionable mutations were identified in 27 patients (31.0%). Of these, mutations categorized as highly actionable and modifies options were identified in 12 (13.8%) and 18 patients (20.7%), respectively. The most frequent highly actionable mutations were located in DNA damage response genes, such as BRCA1, BRCA2, or ATM (n = 6, 6.9%). Two patients with germline BRCA1 mutations received maintenance poly(adenosine diphosphate-ribose) polymerase inhibitor therapy. One patient has been receiving maintenance treatment for 18 months while remaining in radiologically complete remission. Mutational profiles using targeted NGS in Korean patients with pancreatic cancer were similar to those in Western patients. The present study supports the clinical potential and possible expanded clinical use of genetic profiling.