We have previously reported that monoclonal antibodies against the (pro)renin receptor [(P)RR] can reduce the Wnt/β-catenin-dependent development of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC), the most common pancreatic cancer. Antibodies against two (P)RR regions (residues 47-60 and 200-213) located in the extracellular domain (ECD) reduced the proliferation of human PDAC cells in vitro. Although these regions probably participate in the activation of Wnt/β-catenin signaling, their functional significance remains unclear. Moreover, the (P)RR ECD is predicted to possess an intrinsically disordered region (IDR), which allows multiple protein interactions because of its conformational flexibility. In this study, we investigated the significance of the two regions and the IDR by in silico 3D structural analysis using the AlphaFold2 program and evolutionary sequence conservation profile. The model showed that ECD adopted a folded domain (residues 17-269) and had an IDR (residues 270-296). The two regions mapped onto the structural model formed a continuous surface patch comprising evolutionarily conserved hydrophobic residues. The homodimeric structure predicted by AlphaFold2 showed that full-length (P)RR comprising the ECD, single-span transmembrane, and cytoplasmic domains formed a twofold symmetric dimer via the ECD, which explains the experimentally proven homodimerization. The dimer model possessed two hand-shaped grooves with residues 47-60 and 200-213 in their palms and the IDR as their fingers. Based on these findings, we propose that the IDR-containing hydrophobic grooves act as a binding site for (P)RR and perform multiple functions, including Wnt signaling activation. Antibodies against the (pro)renin receptor residues 47-60 and 200-213 can inhibit pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) cell proliferation by suppressing Wnt signaling. This study provides 3D structural insights into receptor binding and one-to-many interactions, which underpin the functional versatility of this receptor.