Background:Patient-derived organoids are invaluable for fundamental and translational cancer research and holds great promise for personalized medicine. However, the shortage of available analysis methods, which are often single-time point, severely impede the potential and routine use of organoids for basic research, clinical practise, and pharmaceutical and industrial applications.Methods:Here, we developed a high-throughput compatible and automated live-cell image analysis software that allows for kinetic monitoring of organoids, named Organoid Brightfield Identification-based Therapy Screening (OrBITS), by combining computer vision with a convolutional network machine learning approach. The OrBITS deep learning analysis approach was validated against current standard assays for kinetic imaging and automated analysis of organoids. A drug screen of standard-of-care lung and pancreatic cancer treatments was also performed with the OrBITS platform and compared to the gold standard, CellTiter-Glo 3D assay. Finally, the optimal parameters and drug response metrics were identified to improve patient stratification.Results:OrBITS allowed for the detection and tracking of organoids in routine extracellular matrix domes, advanced Gri3D®-96 well plates, and high-throughput 384-well microplates, solely based on brightfield imaging. The obtained organoid Count, Mean Area, and Total Area had a strong correlation with the nuclear staining, Hoechst, following pairwise comparison over a broad range of sizes. By incorporating a fluorescent cell death marker, intra-well normalization for organoid death could be achieved, which was tested with a 10-point titration of cisplatin and validated against the current gold standard ATP-assay, CellTiter-Glo 3D. Using this approach with OrBITS, screening of chemotherapeutics and targeted therapies revealed further insight into the mechanistic action of the drugs, a feature not achievable with the CellTiter-Glo 3D assay. Finally, we advise the use of the growth rate-based normalised drug response metric to improve accuracy and consistency of organoid drug response quantification.Conclusion:Our findings validate that OrBITS, as a scalable, automated live-cell image analysis software, would facilitate the use of patient-derived organoids for drug development and therapy screening. The developed wet-lab workflow and software also has broad application potential, from providing a launching point for further brightfield-based assay development to be used for fundamental research, to guiding clinical decisions for personalized medicine.