Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC), as an intractable malignancy, still causes an extremely high mortality worldwide. The ubiquitin-specific protease (USP) family constitutes the major part of deubiquitinating enzymes (DUBs) which has been reported to be involved in initiation and progression of various malignancies via the function of deubiquitination. However, the biological function and clinical values of USPs in PDAC have not been comprehensively elucidated. In this study, Gene Expression Profiling Interactive Analysis (GEPIA), Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) datasets, UALCAN database, and the Human Protein Atlas (HPA) online tool were used to analyze the expression level and the relationship between USP expression and clinicopathological features in PDAC. Survival module of HPA and Kaplan-Meier plotter (KMP) databases was recruited to explore the prognostic value of USPs. Tumor Immune Estimation Resource (TIMER) online tool and KMP databases were utilized to elucidate tumor immune infiltration and immune-related survival of USPs. CBioPortal online tool was used to identify the gene mutation level of USPs in PDAC. Both cBioPortal and LinkedOmics were used to confirm the potential biological functions of USPs in PDAC. Our study showed that USP10, USP14, USP18, USP32, USP33, and USP39 (termed as six-USPs) expressions were significantly elevated in tumor tissues. The high expression of the four USPs (USP10, USP14, USP18, and USP39) indicated a poor prognosis. A significant relationship was indicated between the expression of six-USPs and clinicopathological features. Also, the expression of six-USPs was related to promoter methylation level. Moreover, more than 40% genetic alterations and mutations were discovered in six-USPs. Furthermore, the six-USP expression was correlated with immune infiltration and immune-related prognosis. The functional analysis found that the six-USPs were involved in various biological processes and signaling pathways, such as nucleocytoplasmic transport, choline metabolism in cancer, cell cycle, ErbB signaling pathway, RIG-I-like receptor signaling pathway, TGF-βsignaling pathway, and TNF signaling pathway. In conclusion, the results showed that six-USPs are potential prognostic biomarkers and can be recruited as possible therapeutic targets of PDAC.