Background:Pancreatic cancer (PC) is one of the most lethal malignancies and carries a dismal mortality and morbidity. Four types of RNA modification (namely m6A, m1A, APA and A-to-I) could be catalyzed by distinct enzymatic compounds ("writers"), mediating numerous epigenetic events in carcinogenesis and immunomodulation. We aim to investigate the interplay mechanism of these writers in immunogenomic features and molecular biological characteristics in PC.Methods:We first accessed the specific expression pattern and transcriptional variation of 26 RNA modification writers in The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) dataset. Unsupervised consensus clustering was performed to divide patients into two RNA modification clusters. Then, based on the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) among two clusters, RNA modification score (WM_Score) model was established to determine RNA modification-based subtypes and was validated in International Cancer Genome Consortium (ICGC) dataset. What's more, we manifested the unique status of WM_Score in transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulation, molecular biological characteristics, targeted therapies and immunogenomic patterns.Results:We documented the tight-knit correlations between transcriptional expression and variation of RNA modification writers. We classified patients into two distinct RNA modification patterns (WM_Score_high and _low), The WM_Score_high subgroup was correlated with worse prognosis, Th2/Th17 cell polarization and oncogenic pathways (e.g. EMT, TGF-β, and mTORC1 signaling pathways), whereas the WM_Score_low subgroup associated with favorable survival rate and Th1 cell trend. WM_Score model also proved robust predictive power in interpreting transcriptional and post-transcriptional events. Additionally, the potential targeted compounds with related pathways for the WM_Score model were further identified.Conclusions:Our research unfolds a novel horizon on the interplay network of four RNA modifications in PC. This WM_Score model demonstrated powerful predictive capacity in epigenetic, immunological and biological landscape, providing a theoretical basis for future clinical judgments of PC.