Metastatic phenotype
and immunosuppressivetumour microenvironmentin pancreatic ductaladenocarcinoma: Key role ofthe urokinase plasminogenactivator (PLAU)
S. M. Zahid Hosen1,2, Md. Nazim Uddin3, Zhihong Xu1,2,
Benjamin J. Buckley4,5, Chamini Perera1,2, Tony C. Y. Pang1,6,
Alpha Raj Mekapogu1,2, Mohammad Ali Moni7, Faiyaz Notta8,
Steven Gallinger8, Ron Pirola1, Jeremy Wilson1,
Marie Ranson4,5, David Goldstein9,10and Minoti Apte1,2*
1Pancreatic Research Group, SWS Clinical Campus, School of Clinical Medicine, Faculty of Medicine
and Health, UNSW Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia,2Ingham Institute for Applied Medical Research,
Liverpool, NSW, Australia,3Institute of Food Science and Technology, Bangladesh Council of
Scienti ﬁc and Industrial Research (BCSIR), Dhaka, Bangladesh,4Molecular Horizons and School of
Chemistry & Molecular Bioscience, Faculty of Science, Medicine and Health, University ofWollongong, Wollongong, NSW, Australia,
5Illawarra Health and Medical Research Institute,
Wollongong, NSW, Australia,6Westmead Clinical School, Faculty of Medicine and Health, University
of Sydney, The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia,7School of Health and Rehabilitation
Sciences, Faculty of Health and Behavioural Sciences, The University of Queensland, St Lucia, QLD,Australia,
8PanCuRx Translational Research Initiative, Ontario Institute for Cancer Research,
Toronto, ON, Canada,9Prince of Wales Clinical School, University of New South Wales, Sydney,
NSW, Australia,10Department of Medical Oncology, Prince of Wales Hospital, Randwick, NSW,
Australia
Background: Previous studies have revealed the role of dysregulated urokinase
plasminogen activator (encoded by PLAU ) expression and activity in several
pathways associated with cancer progression. However, systematic
investigation into the association of PLAU expression with factors that
modulate PDAC (pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma) progression is lacking,
such as those affecting stromal (pancreatic stellate cell, PSC)-cancer cell
interactions, tumour immunity, PDAC subtypes and clinical outcomes from
potential PLAU inhibition.
Methods: This study used an integrated bioinformatics approach to identify
prognostic markers correlated wit h PLAU expression using different
transcriptomics, proteomics, and clinical data sets. We then determined the
association of dysregulated PLAU and correlated signatures with oncogenic
pathways, metastatic phenotypes, stroma, immunosuppressive tumour
microenvironment (TME) and clinical outcome. Finally, using an in vivo
Frontiers in Immunology frontiersin.org 01
OPEN ACCESS
EDITED BY
Andrey Zamyatnin,
I.M. Sechenov First Moscow State
Medical University, Russia
REVIEWED BY
Nagaraj Nagathihalli,
University of Miami, United States
Monika Jakubowska,Jagiellonian University, Poland
*CORRESPONDENCE
Minoti Aptem.apte@unsw.edu.au
SPECIALTY SECTION
This article was submitted toCancer Immunityand Immunotherapy,a section of the journal
Frontiers in Immunology
RECEIVED 04 October 2022
ACCEPTED 22 November 2022
PUBLISHED 14 December 2022
CITATION
Hosen SMZ, Uddin MN, Xu Z,
Buckley BJ, Perera C, Pang TCY,
Mekapogu AR, Moni MA, Notta F,
Gallinger S, Pirola R, Wilson J,
Ranson M, Goldstein D and Apte M
(2022) Metastatic phenotype and
immunosuppressive tumourmicroenvironment in pancreatic ductaladenocarcinoma: Key role of the
urokinase plasminogen
activator (PLAU).Front. Immunol. 13:1060957.
doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2022.1060957
COPYRIGHT
©2 0 2 2H o s e n ,U d d i n ,X u ,B u c k l e y ,Perera, Pang, Mekapogu, Moni, Notta,Gallinger, Pirola, Wilson, Ranson,
Goldstein and Apte. This is an open-
access article distributed under theterms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License (CC BY). The use,
distribution or reproduction in other
forums is permitted, provided theoriginal author(s) and the copyrightowner(s) are credited and that the
original publication in this journal is
cited, in accordance with acceptedacademic practice. No use,distribution or reproduction is
permitted which does not comply with
these terms.TYPE Original Research
PUBLISHED 14 December 2022
DOI10.3389/fimmu.2022.1060957orthotopic model of pancreatic cancer, we con ﬁrmed the predicted effect of
inhibiting PLAU on tumour growth and metastasis.
Results: Our analyses revealed that PLAU upregulation is not only associated
with numerous other prognostic markers but also associated with the
activation of various oncogenic signalling pathways, aggressive phenotypes
relevant to PDAC growth and metastasis, such as proliferation, epithelial-
mesenchymal transition (EMT), stemness, hypoxia, extracellular cell matrix
(ECM) degradation, upregulation o f stromal signatures, and immune
suppression in the tumour microenvironment (TME). Moreover, the
upregulation of PLAU was directly connected with signalling pathways
known to mediate PSC-cancer cell interactions. Furthermore, PLAU
upregulation was associated with the aggressive basal/squamous phenotype
of PDAC and signi ﬁcantly reduced overall survival, indicating that this subset of
patients may bene ﬁt from therapeutic interventions to inhibit PLAU activity. Our
studies with a clinically relevant orthotopic pancreatic model showed that even
short-term PLAU inhibition is suf ﬁcient to signi ﬁcantly halt tumour growth and,
importantly, eliminate visible metastasis.
Conclusion: Elevated PLAU correlates with increased aggressive phenotypes,
stromal score, and immune suppression in PDAC. PLAU upregulation is also
closely associated with the basal subtype type of PDAC; patients with this
subtype are at high risk of mortality from the disease and may bene ﬁt from
therapeutic targeting of PLAU .
KEYWORDS
PLAU , pancreatic stellate cells, proliferation, EMT, stemness, ECM degradation,
immune suppression and basal subtype type of PDAC
1 Introduction
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC), the most
common subtype of pancreatic cancer (PC), is currently the
seventh leading cause of cancer-associated death ( 1) and has a
notoriously dismal prognosis. The incidence of PDAC continues
to increase, and it is projected to become the second most
common cause of cancer-linked death by 2030 ( 2). Current
treatments have limited impact. The mean overall survival of thecurrent standard treatment of FOLFIRINOX is 12.5 months, and
that of Gemcitabine plus Abraxane, 10.3 months, P = 0.05 ( 3).
Immunotherapies, individually or in combination with
chemoradiotherapy or targeted therapy, have not made much
progress in PDAC ( 4–7), reﬂecting an urgent need to identify
new biologically driven targets to limit PDAC progression,
particularly metastasis, the primary driver of mortality in
this disease.
PDAC is no longer considered one disease at the molecular
level, with many different molecular subtypes and subtype-
speciﬁc treatment responses in PDAC ( 4–6). The two majortranscriptomic-based subtypes, which have been con ﬁrmed
across multiple investigations , are the classical/pancreatic
progenitor subtype and the quasi-mesenchymal/basal-like/
squamous subtype ( 4,5,8). The basal subtype is over-
represented amongst metastatic PDAC tumours, and it is
distinguished by ECM-rich activated stroma, the upregulation
of expression of laminins and keratins and enriched for genes
associated with epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and
TGF- bsignalling ( 9). On the other hand, the classical PDAC
signature is characterised by upregulation of a wide range of
transcription factors, GATA4, GATA6, NKX2-2 and HNF1A,
associated with pancreatic lineage differentiation ( 4–8).
Clinicopathologically, basal-type tumours are poorly
differentiated and correlate with a worse prognosis (median
OS 10 –19.2 months and DFS 4.6 –10.9); these tumours are
chemoresistant but may have a better response to adjuvant
therapy ( 4–6,9–13). In contrast, classical type tumours are
well-differentiated and are correlated with an overall better
prognosis (median OS 19 –43.1 months and DFS 13.5 –20.6) ( 4,
6,8,10,14–17).Hosen et al. 10.3389/ ﬁmmu.2022.1060957
Frontiers in Immunology frontiersin.org 02Histologically, PDAC is well known to be characterised by a
prominent stromal reaction comprising non-cellular elements
like collagen, ﬁbronectin, glycoproteins, proteoglycans,
hyaluronic acid, cytokines, growth factors, and serine protein
acidic and rich in cysteine (SPARC), as well as a wide range of
cell types including neural, endothelial, immune & pancreatic
stellate cells (PSCs). Pancrea tic stellate cells (PSCs) are
responsible for producing this excessive collagenous stroma inPDAC ( 18–20). Reciprocal interactions between activated
pancreatic stellate and P DAC cells facilitate PDAC
development and progression. One of the key pathways that
may mediate cancer-stromal interactions is the hepatocyte
growth factor (HGF) and its receptor c-MET pathway.
Hyperactivity of HGF/c-MET signalling is considered a
hallmark of cancer. Further, the serine protease urokinase
plasminogen activator (uPA, encoded by PLAU ) activates pro-
HGF (secreted by pancreatic stellate cells) to active HGF, which
binds to the c-MET receptor on cancer cells, activating several
downstream signalling molecules. In addition, HGF binding to
the c-MET receptor induces PLAU production by pancreatic and
other cancer cells. The increased uPA level further activates pro-
HGF, resulting in a feed-forward activation loop to promote
cancer progression ( 21–23).
In normal cells ( 24–27),PLAU expression is very low and
tightly controlled ( 7,23,28). However, PLAU and subsequently
uPA expression is increased several-fold in tumour cells ( 23,29–
31), which results in cataly tic conversion of inactive
plasminogen to plasmin. Plasmin degrades extracellular matrix
directly or indirectly viaactivation of precursor forms of matrix-
degrading enzymes (matri x metalloproteinases) ( 32).
Furthermore, in cancer cells, direct interaction of uPA with its
receptor uPAR (encoded by PLAUR) facilitates the activation of
multiple intracellular cell-signalling pathways, which regulate
proliferation, migration, inva sion, epithelial-mesenchymal
transition, stem cell-like prop erties, release from states of
dormancy, cell survival, chemoresistance, angiogenesis and
vasculogenic mimicry ( 7,24–27,33–41)i nc a n c e r .A l lo f
which suggests a role as a master regulator in cancer
development and progression. Indeed, upregulation of PLAU
is associated with poor prognosis in several different cancers ( 33,
42). One study analysed 8 PDAC versus normal tissue gene
expression pro ﬁles retrieved from the GEO database and found
PLAU
and PLAU R to be one of 10 hub genes signi ﬁcantly
associated with PDAC pathogenesis ( 43).
This is the ﬁrst study to delineate the role of the PLAU by
integrated publically available transcriptomic, proteomics, and
clinical data to 1) further elucidate the mechanisms underlying
PLAU -related PDAC growth and progression, 2) use this data to
undertake analyses of prognostic outcomes (overall survival) and
assessment of relationship with clinical attributes, 3) identify the
most ‘at risk ’group based on PLAU expression and4)
preclinically assess selectiv e uPA inhibition on pancreatic
cancer growth and metastasis. To the best of our knowledge,this is the ﬁrst integrated –omics analysis of the expression of
these key components of the uPA system in PDAC.
2 Materials and methods
This study was implemented according to the analytical
approach shown in Figure 1 . The main steps involved in this
task were step 1) identi ﬁcation of differentially expressed PLAU
mRNA in i) 33 different cancer cohorts in the TCGA database,ii) different cancer cell lines from CCLE and iii) different GEO
datasets. Step 2) Kaplan-Meier survival analyses of PLAU in
PDAC-speci ﬁc TCGA, ICGC and OICR patient cohorts. Step 3)
Identifying other gene signatures correlated with PLAU from
TCGA, ICGC and OICR patients cohorts. These gene signatures
were mainly related to cancer cell functions, immunity and
prognosis. A PPI network was constructed based on the gene
signatures, and relevant subcellular pathways were identi ﬁed.
Step 4) Assessing the correlation of PLAU expression with
pathways responsible for PSC-PDAC cell interactions. Step 5)
Validation of transcriptome-based prognostic signatures using
CPTAC proteomics data and assessing the relationship with
clinical attributes. Step 6) Stratifying patient groups according to
PLAU protein expression and survival and identifying the most
‘at risk ’group. Step 7) Further validation of the effect of PLAU
inhibition on PDAC tumour growth and metastasis using in vivo
pancreatic orthotopic model.
2.1 Datasets
We used the GEPIA (Gene Expression Pro ﬁling Interactive
Analysis) TCGA dataset ( http://gepia.cancer-pku.cn/ )f o r
comparing the differential mRNA expression of PLAU between
cancer and normal samples. The Cancer Cell Line Encyclopedia
(CCLE) ( https://www.broadinstitute.org/ccle ) mRNA expression
data was used to identify distinctively upregulated PLAU in
pancreatic cancer cell lines ( 44,45). Next, we used different
microarray data sets, including GSE16515 ( 46), GSE58561 ( 47),
GSE71989 ( 48), GSE62165 ( 12), GSE71729 ( 6), and RNAseq
GSE119794 ( 49) from the NCBI-GEO database.
Messenger RNA expression data and associated
clinicopathological data were used from The Cancer GenomeAtlas (TCGA, http://cancergenome.nih.gov/ )a n dt h e
International Cancer Genome Consortium (ICGC, https://icgc.
org/). In particular, normalised gene expression of NGS was
downloaded from the cBioPortal, (TCGA, Firehose https://www.
cbioportal.org/ )(50)o n1
stJuly 2021. For the ICGC-Pancreatic
Cancer - Australia (ICGC-PACA-AU) cohort, data were obtained
from the Supplementary Material of the corresponding
publication ( 4). In addition, we also used the Ontario Institute
for Cancer Research (OICR) PDAC cohort (EGAS00001002543)
for gene expression and clinical data through a data accessHosen et al. 10.3389/ ﬁmmu.2022.1060957
Frontiers in Immunology frontiersin.org 03agreement. Likewise, the proteomic and accompanying
clinicopathological data from the proteogenomiccharacterisation of the PDAC study ( 6)w a sa c q u i r e d viathe
Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium (CPTAC, https://
cptac-data-portal.georgetown.edu/ ). Only PDAC cases with
matched RNAseq/protein expression and clinical data were
included in the analysis for all the cohorts.2.2 Differential expression analysis
Differential expression an alysis was performed using
GEO2R ( http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/geo2r )a n dR
packages limma from the Bioconductor project ( http://www.
bioconductor.org/ ). The thresholds of P-value < 0.05 and |FC|
(fold change) > one was set to determine the signi ﬁcant level.
FIGURE 1
An integrative clinical bioinformatics work ﬂow to decipher the role of PLAU in PDAC growth and progression, clinical outcome prediction and in
vivo preclinical method-based validation of PLAU inhibition effects in tumour growth and metastasis.Hosen et al. 10.3389/ ﬁmmu.2022.1060957
Frontiers in Immunology frontiersin.org 042.3 Identi ﬁcation of correlated
gene signature
We used Pearson ’s correlation test to identify gene-gene
correlation because the expression data is normally distributed.
However, we employed Spearman ’s correlation test between the
mRNA expression level of PLAU and the ssGSEA score of
selected pathways because the data is not normally distributed.
The threshold of our correlation analysis was set at greater than
0.30, and FDR ≤0.05. A false discovery rate (FDR) calculated by
the Benjamini and Hochberg method ( 51) was used to adjust for
multiple tests.
By comparing annotated gene sets from the Molecular
Signatures Database (MSigDB) ( 52), and using the online tool
“Calculate and draw custom Venn diagrams ”(http://
bioinformatics.psb.u gent.be/webtools/Venn/ )w ei d e n t i ﬁed
common tumour suppressors, oncogenes, translocated cancer
genes, transcription factors, cyto kines and growth factors, protein
kinases, homeodomain proteins, and cell differentiation markers
among positive and negatively correlated gene signatures of PLAU
identi ﬁed from three PDAC cohorts.
2.4 Gene-set enrichment analysis
We performed gene-set enrichment analysis of the PLAU -
correlated genes using GSEA ( 53) with a false discovery rate
threshold, FDR < 0.05. The Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and
Genomes (KEGG) pathways that were signi ﬁcantly associated with
the positive and the negatively PLAU -correlated genes were also
identi ﬁed (FDR < 0.05).
2.5 Functional analysis
We constructed protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks of
thePLAU -correlated genes using the STRING (version v11 ( 54))
and visualised the PPI networks by utilising the Cytoscape 3.9.1
software ( 55). The rank of genes was identi ﬁed by the Cytoscape
plugin cytoHubba ( 56). Hub nodes were identi ﬁed using a
threshold of medium interaction score ≥0.40, and we selected the
degree of interaction ≥25 for identifying the most closely interacting
genes in the PPI.
2.6 Survival analysis
We used the clinical data of TCGA, ICGC, OICR and
CPTAC PDAC cohorts for survival analysis. We compared the
overall survival (OS) between PDAC patients classi ﬁed based on
gene expression levels (high expression levels >mean > lowexpression levels). Kaplan-Meier survival curves were used to
show the survival time differences, and the log-rank test was
utilised to evaluate the signi ﬁcance of survival time differences
between both groups. We used the R package “survival ”to
perform survival analysis ( 57), and the function “coxph ”in the
Rp a c k a g e “survival ”was used for the u nivariate and
multivariable Cox regression analyses ( 57).
2.7 Evaluation of immune scores, stromal
scores, and tumour purity in
stromal content
We utilised the “ESTIMATE ”R package to calculate an
immune score representing the enrichment levels of immune
cells and a stromal score representing the content of stromal cells
(58) in the TCGA-PDAC cohort. We compared immune and
stromal scores between the patients with high expression of
PLAU and low expression of the PLAU group in PDAC (high
expression levels >mean > low expression levels). We considered
the Wilcoxon sum rank test (P-value ≤0.05) to identify
signiﬁcant differences between both groups.
2.8 Associations of the expression levels
ofPLAU with immune signature, pathway
activity, and tumour phenotypes in PDAC
Weﬁrst identi ﬁed the PLAU correlated cell function and
immune gene signatures. Then we used the single-sample gene-
set enrichment analysis (ssGSEA) to quantify the enrichment
scores of immune and stromal signatures in tumours based on
the expression levels of their marker genes ( 53). We de ﬁned the
ratio of immune signatures in a tumour sample as the ratio of the
average expression levels of their marker genes. The immune
and stromal signatures analysed included B cells, CD8+ T cells,
CD4+ regulatory T cells, macrophages, neutrophils, natural
killer (NK) cells, tumour-in ﬁltrating-lymphocytes (TILs),
regulatory T cells (Tregs), cytolytic activity, T cell activation, T
cell exhaustion, T follicular helper cells (Tfh), M2 macrophages,
tumour-associated macroph age (TAM), T helper 17 cells,
myeloid-derived suppressor cell (MDSC), endothelial cell, and
cancer-associated ﬁbroblasts (CAFs). Their marker genes are
shown in Supplementary Table (ST) B . Moreover, we identi ﬁed
the ssGSEA score of all enriched pathways that directly correlate
with PLAU and tumour phenotypes (proliferation, EMT,
stemness, ECM degradation, and hypoxia). The genes
associated with the speci ﬁc pathways and phenotypes are listed
inSTB,ST12 . Finally, we compared immune signatures and
phenotypes of PDAC patients with high expression of PLAU
with those with low expression of the PLAU.Hosen et al. 10.3389/ ﬁmmu.2022.1060957
Frontiers in Immunology frontiersin.org 052.9In vitro and in vivo study
2.9.1 Isolation and characterisation of cancer-
associated hPSCs
Using the outgrowth method ( 59), CAhPSCs were isolated
from surgically removed pancreatic tissue obtained from cancer
patients. The characterisa tion of CAhPSC yield was then
assessed by morphology and immunostaining for the selective
GFAP and the activation marker aSMA ( 60).
2.9.2 Cell culture
AsPC-1 cells (American Type Cultu re Collection, Manassas, VA)
and CAhPSCs were cultured according to the supplier ’si n s t r u c t i o n s
and following previously published protocols by our group ( 61).
2.9.3 In vivo orthotopic model of
pancreatic cancer
To validate the outcome of PLAU (uPA) inhibition on tumour
growth and metastasis in vivo , we conducted a pilot study using an
orthotopic model of pancreatic cancer as previously established in
our laboratory ( 21,62,63). Brie ﬂy, 6-8 weeks old female athymic
nude mice (BALBc nu/nu) were anae sthetised, and an opening was
made in the left ﬂank, followed by exteriorisation of the spleen and
tail of the pancreas. Then 1 × 106human PC cells (AsPC-1) plus 1 ×
106cancer-associated human PSCs (CAhPSCs) in 50 mLo fP B S
were implanted into the tail of the pancreas to replicate early cancer
development and progression. Mass Spectrophotometry –Based
proteome pro ﬁling (ST19) con ﬁrmed PLAU protein expression in
both AsPC1 and CAhPSCs. Seven days after cell implantation, mice
were randomised (n=5/group) to re ceive vehicle control (Ctrl),
Gemcitabine (G) 75 mg/kg IP biweekly, uPA small molecule
enzymatic inhibitor [5,6-disub stituted amiloride analogue,
compound BB2-30F (A26) ( 64)] 3mg/kg (U3) or 10mg/kg (U10)
IP daily. BB230F compounds were formulated for IP injection in 50
mM acetate buffer (pH5.5) + 10% DMSO + 1% Kolliphor HS-15
buffer and ﬁltered through 0.22 mm PVDF syringe-driven ﬁlters
under sterile conditions ( 64) The total number of vehicle injections
was 28 (daily IP injections), allo wing us to control maximally for
any effects of IP injections per se in our model. Pancreatic tumour
growth was monitored by palpation. At the end of 28 days of
treatment, tumours were resected, and tumour volume was
determined according to the formula (1/2(length × breadth ×
width) using digital Vernier callipers (Intech Tools, Thomas
T o w n ,V I C ,A u s t r a l i a ) .T h ea b d o m i n a lc a v i t y ,m e s e n t e r y ,s p l e e n ,
liver, and lungs were examined, and a metastasis score was
calculated based on the presence or absence of visible
macrometastatic nodules. Haema toxylin and eosin staining was
performed to con ﬁrm the presence of such nodules. Primary
tumour sections were immunostai ned for E-cadherin, vimentin
and ALDH1A1. Tumour volum e data are expressed as
mean ± SEM. One-way analysis of variance with Tukey ’spost hoc
test was applied. Analyses were pe rformed using GraphPad Prism 9
for Windows 64-bit (GraphPad Software, San Diego, CA, USA).The animal studies were approved by the University of New
South Wales Animal Care and Ethics Committee (Approval
Number 18/125B) and accomplished under ARRIVE guidelines.
3 Results
3.1PLAU is signi ﬁcantly differentially
expressed in various cancers
Using the GEPIA dataset, it was found that PLAU mRNA
levels are signi ﬁcantly differentially expressed (compared to
relevant normal tissue) in 23 of the 33 different types of
cancers assessed ( Figure 2A ;R e d= t u m o u ra n dG r e e n =
normal). In BLCA, BRCA, CESC, COAD, DLBC, ESCA, GBM,
HNSC, KICH, KIRC, LGG, LIHC, LUAD, LUSC, OV, PAAD,
PRAD, READ, STAD, TGCT, THCA, THYM, and UCEC PLAU
is signi ﬁcantly upregulated while in KICH, KIRC and PRAD it is
downregulated ( Figure 2A ). In particular, in the PAAD cohort of
pancreatic cancer, PLAU transcripts were 4.876 (p=1.6e-103)
fold elevated compared with normal tissue. In support of the
above observations, the Cancer Cell Line Encyclopedia (CCLE)
d a t a s e tr e v e a l e dt h a t( https://www.broadinstitute.org/ccle )
PLAU was also differentially expressed in different cancer cell
lines ( Figure 2B ), including 44 pancreatic cancer cell lines (from
primary and metastatic PDAC tumours ( ST2 A ). Upregulated
mRNA and protein expression levels for PLAU (relative to
normal controls) in 17 PDAC cell lines are depicted
inFigure 2C .
The above observations related to PDAC were further
conﬁrmed by analysis of several GSE microarrays which
showed signi ﬁcant fold increases in PLAU mRNA in PDAC vs
normal controls as detailed in the following: GSE16515 (logFC
2.73, P=2.32E-07); GSE58561 (l ogFC 4.94, P = 5.35E-06);
GSE71989 (logFC 3.29, P =2.56E-06); GSE62165 (logFC 3.31,
P = 1.91E-27); GSE71729 (logFC 1.56, P = 1.98E-09), and
RNAseq GSE119794 (logFC 1.256, P= 0.003), ST3.T a k e n
together, the above ﬁndings indicate that PLAU is signi ﬁcantly
upregulated in different tumours and cancer cell lines. Of
particular relevance to this study, pancreatic cancer and cell
lines, consistently demonstrate upregulation of PLAU gene
expression, suggesting that PLAU may play driver roles in the
development and progression of PDAC.
3.2 Upregulated mRNA expression of
PLAU is associated with poor survival in
PDAC patients
Given the signi ﬁcant upregulation of PLAU in PDAC
patients from distinct datasets, we further investigated the
association of PLAU with clinical outcomes. TCGA data of
147 PDAC patients from 179 PAAD-TCGA cohorts wereHosen et al. 10.3389/ ﬁmmu.2022.1060957
Frontiers in Immunology frontiersin.org 06B
CA
FIGURE 2
PLAU expression in cancers. (A)Dot plot depicting PLAU gene expression pro ﬁle across 33 cancer types and paired normal samples (TCGA
normal plus GTEx), with each dot representing a distinct tumour or normal sample. The bar height represents the median expression of acertain tumour type or normal tissue. The comparison was performed using GEPIA (Gene Expression Pro ﬁling Interactive Analysis). For each
TCGA tumour (red), its matched normal and GTEx data (green) are given; T: tumour; N: normal; n: number. Y-axis: transcripts per million log2
(TPM + 1). X-axis: number of tumours and normal samples. (B)PLAU expression across 1111 human cancer cell lines from the Cancer Cell Line
Encyclopedia (CCLE). Box plots showing RNA-seq mRNA expression data from CCLE, with the dashed lines within a box representing the mean.Cell lines derived from the same organ/organ system were grouped, and lineages are indicated at the bottom of the graph, with the number of
cell lines per organ/organ system in parenthesis. The “pancreas ”group includes the 44 pancreatic cancer cell lines listed in ( ST2A ).(C)Relative
expression level of PLAU at mRNA and protein level in 17 PDAC cell lines using the depmap portal.Hosen et al. 10.3389/ ﬁmmu.2022.1060957
Frontiers in Immunology frontiersin.org 07analysed to reveal that patients in the high PLAU mRNA
expression group had the poorest outcome (high expression
group of PLAU > mean expression level of PLAU >l o w
expression of PLAU )(Figure 3A ), P=0.042. Similar results
were obtained on analysis of the ICGC patient cohort
(GSE36924) ( Figure 3B ), P=0.04 ( 4). With the third patient
cohort in our study (OICR; EGAS00001002543) ( 65), there was
a trend for poorer survival in patients with high PLAU mRNA
expression, but the difference did not achieve statistical
signi ﬁc a n c eP =0 . 2 8( Figure 3C ). Altogether, these data
demonstrate that the upregulation of PLAU mRNA expression
is an adverse prognostic factor in PDAC.
3.3PLAU is signi ﬁcantly correlated with
key signal regulatory and tumour
immune genes in PDAC
In view of our ﬁnding of an association between high PLAU
gene expression and poor prognosis in PDAC patients, we were
interested in analysing other genes that may be correlated with
PLAU and might in ﬂuence patient outcomes. Pearson ’s
correlation coef ﬁcient test was used to identify gene-gene
correlations for all genes in the expression tables of the TCGA,
ICGC, and OICR datasets. A Venn diagram was applied to
identify PLAU -correlated genes common to all three PDAC
datasets ( ST4,ST5andSupplementary Figures (SF) 1A ,B). The
gene signatures were then categorised into different gene families
based on annotated gene sets from Molecular Signatures
Database (MSigDB). There were 676 genes positively
correlated with the PLAU that were common to all three
datasets. ( ST 6A ,SF 1A ) .T h e s ei n c l u d e d4 2t r a n s c r i p t i o n
factors (e.g. FOXC1, HMGA2, RUNX2, SNAI1, SNAI2,
TWIST1 , and WT1 ), 16 protein kinases (e.g. MET, MAPK12 ,
andAKT3 ), 8 homodomain proteins (including SIX4, NKX3-2 ,
and HLX );, 27 cell differentiation markers (including PDL1,
CD44, CD70, CDH2 , and ITGA3) , 18 oncogenes (e.g. CDH11,COL1A1 , and PDGFB) , 16 translocated cancer genes ( CDH11,
CLTCL1, COL1A1, MAF , and MAFB) , one tumour suppressor
gene WT1, and 38 cytokines and growth factors (including
TGFB2, FGF1, VEGFC, PDGFB, EREG, TGFB1, CCL11,
TGFB3, BMP1, IL1,1 and CCL13) [Pearson correlation, r>0.3,
P> 0.05].
There were 428 genes negatively correlated with the elevated
expression levels of PLAU that were common to all three
datasets ( SF 1B ). These comprised 31 transcription factors
(including CDX2 ,FOXA2, GATA6, HNF1A, HNF4A, PDX1,
PPARGC1A ,a n d TOX3) , two cell differentiation markers
(FUT4 and TNFRSF11A) , 11 protein kinases (e.g. ACVR1B,
ERBB3, FGFR4, HIPK2, KALRN, PKDCC, SCYL3) ,f o u r
translocated cancer genes (including PRDM16 and TMPRSS2) ,
six oncogenes (including MYCN, CEBPA , and MECOM) , one
tumour suppressor gene ( HNF1A) and four cytokines and
growth factors (including FAM3B, EDN3, SEMA4G ,a n d
FAM3D ,ST 6A ). Several immune-related gene signatures that
are positive and negatively associated with PLAU were also
identi ﬁed (such as PDCD1LG2 ,HAVCR2, ANXA1,
TNFRSF12A, PLAT, CD276, PTGES, CD44, MMP9, CT45A3,
PIWIL2, METTL7A, IL23R, IL17RB, IL22RA1, TNFRSF11A,
BLNK , and F5,ST7).
Further analysis shows that most of the positively correlated
gene signatures of PLAU in PDAC regulate cancer cell functions
such as cell proliferation, stemness and epithelial-mesenchymal
transition, and other factors of importance to cancer biologies
such as extracellular matrix degradation, hypoxia,
endothelialisation, and metast asis promotion. In contrast,
negatively correlated gene signatures were largely uninvolved
in cancer cell functions ( ST 6C ,SF 1E andF).
A subanalysis of TCGA transcriptomic and clinical data of
PDAC patients revealed speci ﬁc gene signatures (positively and
negatively correlated with PLAU ) associated with poor survival
(ST8,SF 1C andD). Among these prognostic genes, we further
identi ﬁed the following positively correlated MET ,ITGA3,
EREG, PLOD2, EMP1, CD44 HMGA2, TGM2, GAPDH,
BC A
FIGURE 3
Correlation of PLAU gene expression with survival in PDAC. (A, B) Kaplan-Meier survival curves show that high PLAU expression correlated with
signiﬁcantly poorer overall survival (OS) in the TCGA and ICGC PDAC cohorts (log-rank test, P < 0.05), (C)but this was not evident with the
OICR-PDAC cohort (log-rank test, P = 0.28).Hosen et al. 10.3389/ ﬁmmu.2022.1060957
Frontiers in Immunology frontiersin.org 08IL31RA, CGB7, CDH3 , and negatively correlated PRDM16,
PPARGC1A, CAPN6, SPIB, TOX3 , and FGFR4 associated with
the different cancer cell functions listed in Table 1 , while Kaplan
Meier curves signifying their prognostic association are
presented in Figures 4 andSF 2.
3.4PLAU correlated gene signatures and
protein-protein interaction
network analysis
The gene analysis described above indicates that upregulated
PLAU expression is correlated with several key gene signatures
that have the potential to in ﬂuence cancer cell functions and
PDAC progression/outcomes. The daunting task is to
understand how these positively and negatively PLAU
correlated genes modulate the PPI network, which can result
in dysregulated oncogenic pathways with functional and
therapeutic signi ﬁcance. To address this, the 676 positively
correlated genes and the 428 negatively correlated genes
(common to all three data sets) were entered into the STRING
v11 program. 610 of the 676 positively correlated genes and 317
of the 428 negatively correlated genes were involved in the PPI
network with PPI enrichment p-value < 1.0e-16 and 3930 edges,
and p-value < 1.0e-16 577 edges, respectively. Based on the
degree of interactions, some of the top genes within the PPI
network were FN1, GAPDH, COL1A1, CD44, MMP2, COL1A2,
MMP9 POSTN, COL5A1, BGN, LOX, COL4A1, MMP14,THBS1 , and TGFB1 (ST9A ). Extracting the PLAU -centric PPI
network from the original extensive network revealed that PLAU
interacts with 31 of the positively correlated genes ( FN1, MMP2,
GAPDH, CD44, MMP9, MMP14, SERPINE1, TIMP2, TGFB1,
THBS1, CAV1, MET, MMP13, TIMP3, VEGFC, IGFBP3, CTSB,
ITGA5, SNAI1, PLAT, CTSL, CTSD, MMP11, ITGA3, PDGFC,
MRC2, PRSS23, SRPX2, KAL1, MFI2 , and LYPD3 ,SF3andST
9C), and interestingly, only one negatively correlated gene ANG
(ST 9B ,D).
3.5PLAU regulates cancer-associated
and metabolic pathways in PDAC
To delineate the speci ﬁc cancer-associated pathways that
may be modulated by PLAU and its positive/negatively
correlated gene signatures, the Functional Class Scoring (FCS)
method based on GSEA tool ( 53) was used (FDR<0.05). Genes
that are positively correlated with PLAU upregulation were
found to be associated with the enrichment of several cancer-
associated KEGG pathways ( ST 10A ). In order to assess whether
the expression of PLAU was directly associated with the activity
of these pathways, correlations between the expression levels of
PLAU (Log2 normalised) and the speci ﬁc pathway activity
(ssGSEA score of the pathway) were analysed for the TCGA-
PDAC cohort (Spearman ’s correlation test P<0.05).
Interestingly, it was found that PLAU expression correlated
directly with the activity of 11 KEGG pathways, including
TABLE 1 PLAU correlated genes and their association with cellular functions in PDAC.
Prognostic genes positively correlated with PLAU Factors in ﬂuencing cancer biology
HMGA2 Stemness, oncogene, Transcription Factor and Translocating cancer gene
TGM2 Endothelialization, Hypoxia and EMT
CD44 ECM degradation, EMT and Cell differential marker
ITGA3 ECM degradation and cell differential marker and Metastasis
MET Oncogenes and Protein Kinase
EREG Cell Proliferation, Cytokines and Growth Factor
GAPDH Hypoxia
PLOD2 ECM degradation and EMT
EMP1 Cell Proliferation
IL31RA Cell Proliferation
CGB7 Cytokines and Growth factor
CDH3 Metastasis promotion
Prognostic genes negatively correlated with PLAU Factors in ﬂuencing cancer biology
PRDM16 Oncogenes, Transcription Factors, Translocating cancer genes
PPARGC1A Hypoxia, Transcription Factor
CAPN6 ECM degradation
SPIB Transcription Factor
TOX3 Transcription Factor
FGFR4 Cytokines and Growth factor and Protein Kinase
ECM, Extracellular matrix; EMT, Epithelial-mesenchymal transitions.Hosen et al. 10.3389/ ﬁmmu.2022.1060957
Frontiers in Immunology frontiersin.org 09glycosaminoglycan biosynthesis - chondroitin sulfate, basal cell
carcinoma, Hedgehog signalling pathway, axon guidance,
pathways in cancer, pancreatic cancer, TGF-beta signalling
pathway, arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy
(ARVC), wnt signalling pathway, and renal cell carcinoma,
FDR<0.01 ( Figure 5A andST 11A ).
Genes that were negatively correlated with PLAU
upregulation were found to be primarily associated with the
enrichment of 31 metabolic pathways, covering the metabolism
of speci ﬁc amino acids, carbohyd rates, fatty acids and
xenobiotics listed in ( ST 10B ). Interestingly, we discovered that
the expression of PLAU itself was directly correlated with 25
KEGG pathways ( Figure 5B andST 11B ).
A similar observation of PLAU association with cancer-
associated and metabolic pathways in various cancers,
including COAD, HNSC, KIRC, LIHC, BRCA, and LUAD,
was revealed in our further analysis ( SF 4A ,B).3.6PLAU expression is correlated with
pancreatic stellate cell -selective markers
& pathways in TME of PDAC
As noted earlier, PSCs facilitate the survival and growth of
PDAC cells viafactors that modulate cancer cell proliferation,
invasion, migration, metastasis and chemoresistance. In turn,
cancer cells activate PSCs viathe secretion of growth factors and
cytokines ( PDGF, VEGF, bFGF, TGF-ß ), resulting in increased PSC
proliferation, migration and production of extracellular matrix
proteins ( 66–69). Given this bidirectional interaction between
PSCs and cancer cells, we inves tigated the association of PLAU
expression with the abundance of activated PSCs. PLAU expression
was signi ﬁcantly positively correlated (R= 0.41, P=2.754e-07) with
the ssGSEA score of PSC-speci ﬁcm a r k e r si nt h eT C G A - P D A C
data set ( Figure 6A ). Moreover, a signi ﬁcant moderate correlation
was found between PLAU and all other secreted markers of
BA
FIGURE 4
Correlation of PLAU-associated genes with survival in PDAC. Kaplan-Meier survival curves show that signi ﬁcantly worse overall survival of PDAC
patients in the TCGA cohort is correlated with (A)increased expression of ITGA3 (log-rank test, P=0.0035), MET (log-rank test, P = 0.006),
CD44 (log-rank test, P= 0.01), PLOD2 (log-rank test, P = 0.018), EMP1 (log-rank test, P = 0.017), EREG (log-rank test, P = 0.013) and (B)
decreased expression of PPARGC1A (log-rank test, P = 0.0086), FGFR4 (log-rank test, P = 0.049), and PRDM16 (log-rank test, P = 0.036).Hosen et al. 10.3389/ ﬁmmu.2022.1060957
Frontiers in Immunology frontiersin.org 10activated PSCs ( ST13 ), most of which have been shown to play key
roles in cancer progression (please see discussion). PLAU expression
was also correlated with critica l pathways known to mediate PSCs-
PC interactions ( 69), including Hedgehog, TGF beta, WNT
(Figure 5A ), WNT beta-Catenin and hy poxia-inducible factor-1
(Figures 6B ,C)signalling pathways.
3.7 Identi ﬁcation of prognostically
important PLAU correlated matrisome
gene in human PDAC
In the tumour microenvironment, PLAU is involved in ECM
breakdown through activation of plasminogen to plasmin which
activates certain pro-matrix metall oproteinases, facilitating local
tumour invasion. Dysregulated ECM proteins also in ﬂuence
tumour progress and patient surv ival by supporting tumour cell
proliferation, angiogenesis, in ﬂammation ( 22,28), and metastasis
(29,30). However, the association of PLAU with the PDAC-speci ﬁc
matrisome gene (produced by tumo ur cells and stromal pancreatic
stellate cells) has not been assessed in the context of PDAC
development and progression. In order to systematically examine
the correlations of PLAU expression with PDAC-speci ﬁcE C Mg e n e
signatures (from TCGA, ICGC and OICR cohorts), 155 PDAC
m a t r i s o m eg e n es i g n a t u r e s (ST14 )were selected (32 secreted by
cancer cells, 87 by stromal cells and 36 from both cancer and
stromal cells) ( 70). 49 ECM gene signatures were found to be
correlated with PLAU ,e i t h e rp o s i t i v e l y( 33)o rn e g a t i v e l y( 3)
(Pearson correlation, r>0.3; p <0.05) .O ft h e4 9g e n e s ,2 2c o d e d
for ECM glycoproteins ( EFEMP1, EMILIN1, FBLN2, FBN1, FN1,HMCN1, IGFBP3, LAMA4, LAMC2, LTBP1, LTBP2, MATN2,
MFAP2, PCOLCE, POSTN, PXDN, SRPX2, TGFBI, TGM2,
THBS1, THBS2 and TNC), 12 for ECM regulators ( ADAMTS4,
ADAMTSL1, BMP1, CTSB, CTSD ,L O X ,L O X L 1 ,M M P 2 ,P L O D 1 ,
PLOD2, SERPINH1 and TGM2 ), six for collagens ( COL11A1,
COL6A1, COL6A2, COL6A3, COL8A1 ,a n d COL8A2 ), four for
ECM-af ﬁliated proteins ( ANXA1, ANXA4, LGALS1 andLGALS4 ),
three for secreted factors ( S100A16, S100A9 ,a n d TGFB1 ), and two
for proteoglycans BGN andVCAN (ST14 ,15AandFigure 7A ).
Survival analysis of the TCG A-PDAC cohort revealed that
secreted factor S100A16 ( cancer-cell –derived), ECM regulator
PLOD2 (stromal cell-derived) and ECM regulator TGM2 ( derived
from both cancer cells and stromal cells) genes were overexpressed
in human PDAC and correlated with short patient survival (log-
rank test, P < 0.05), Figures 7B –D. In contrast, none of the
negatively correlated matrisom e gene signatures was associated
with patient survival. However, at the protein level (using the
CPTAC-PDAC cohort), while PLOD2, S100A16 and TGM2 were
all signi ﬁcantly differentially overexpressed in tumours compared to
the normal adjacent pancreas ( ST 15B ), only upregulation of
PLOD2 (log-rank test, P= 0.05) protein was found to be
associated with poor survival (refer to PLOD2).
3.8 Upregulation of the PLAU gene is
correlated with aggressive phenotypes
of PDAC
Aggressive PDAC is characterised by increased cancer cell
proliferation, EMT, stemness, active ECM and hypoxia. Using
B A
FIGURE 5
Correlation of PLAU upregulation with cancer-associated and metabolic pathways in PDAC. In the TCGA PDAC cohort, upregulation of PLAU
gene expression is (A)directly and positively correlated with cancer-associated pathways and (B)negatively correlated with metabolic pathways
(FDR<0.05).Hosen et al. 10.3389/ ﬁmmu.2022.1060957
Frontiers in Immunology frontiersin.org 11the TCGA-PDAC cohort to compare the PLAU high expressing
group (HEG) vs the PLAU low expressing group (LEG), scores
for each of the above parameters were found to be elevated
(Figures 8A –E), and the associated markers signi ﬁcantly
correlated ( SF 5A –D) with high PLAU gene expression.
3.9 Expression of the PLAU gene is
associated with an immunosuppressive
tumour microenvironment in PDAC
Since the in ﬁltration levels of immune cells are an
independent predictor of survival in cancers ( 58), the
differences in various immune and stromal signatures between
PLAU -high and PLAU -low patients in the TCGA-PDAC cohort
were examined. Stromal and immune scores were calculated (the
content of cells) by applying the ESTIMATE ( 58) algorithm. The
stromal score was signi ﬁcantly higher in the HEG of PLAU than
in the LEG of PLAU (Figure 9A , Wilcoxon rank-sum test,
p<0.05). In contrast, there was no signi ﬁcant difference in the
immune score between the groups. However, the PLAU -highgroup was associated with inhibition of immune stimulatory
signatures that included CD8+ T cells, NK cells, and type 2 IFN
(Figure 9B ) and upregulation of immunosuppressive signatures
that included CAFs, macrophages, cancer-testis antigens, PI
genes, PD-L1 ,PDL-2 , and TGFB1 (Wilcoxon rank-sum test,
p<0.05) ( Figure 9C ). The ratios of CD8+ T cells/CD4+ T cells
and pro-/anti-in ﬂammatory cytokines (as assessed by the ratio
of average expression levels (log2-transformed) of their marker
genes) were signi ﬁcantly lower in the PLAU high group
(expression levels > average) ( Figure 10A , P < 0.05). The pro-
inﬂammatory cytokine genes are immune-stimulatory and
include IFNG ,IL-1A ,IL-1B ,a n d IL-2,w h i l et h ea n t i -
inﬂammatory cytokine genes IL-4,IL-10 ,IL-11 , and TGFB1
represent an immune-inhibitory signature. The expression
levels of PLAU were negatively correlated with CD8A/PD-L1
and CD8A/PD-L2 ratios (Pearson ’s correlation test, P < 0.05,
Figure 10B ). Taken together, the above ﬁndings indicate that
elevated PLAU expression has a stronger association with
immunosuppressive TME signatures ( PD-L1 and PD-L2 ) than
with the anti-tumour immune signature (CD8+ T cells) in the
TCGA-PDAC cohort.
BC A
FIGURE 6
Association of PLAU gene expression with abundant activated PSCs and pathways responsible for PSC-PC interactions. In the TCGA PDAC
cohort, upregulation of PLAU gene expression exhibit a signi ﬁcant positive association with (A)abundance of activated PSCs in the TME (R=
0.41, P=2.754e −07),(B)WNT beta-Catenin pathway activity (R= 0.34, P=2.837e −05), and (C)hypoxia score (R= 0.53, P < 2.2e −16).
BC AD
FIGURE 7
Correlation of PLAU expression and matrisome gene signatures in human PDAC. (A)Upregulation of PLAU gene expression was positively
correlated with various PDAC ECM matrisome gene signatures. Kaplan Meier survival curves show that in the TCGA-PDAC cohort, poor survivalwas associated with (B)increased expression of S100A16 , P = 0.0054, (C)PLOD2 , P = 0.018 and (D)TGM2 , P=0.029.Hosen et al. 10.3389/ ﬁmmu.2022.1060957
Frontiers in Immunology frontiersin.org 123.10 PLAU -correlated prognostic gene
markers are also differentially expressed
and associated with poor outcomes inPDAC at the protein level
In order to determine whether the identi ﬁed prognostic gene
signatures ( PLAU correlated 41 positively and 34 negatively in
the TCGA-PDAC cohort) translated to protein or not in the
PDAC tumour, we performed a differential expression analysis
based on the CPTAC-PDAC cohort. 135 patients ’tumours
proteome pro ﬁle compared with proteins expression data from
67 normal adjacent and nine normal ducts tissues. The results
showed that 23 out of 41 positively correlated prognostics
markers were differentially upregulated; out of 34 negatively
correlated prognostics markers, 16 were differentially
downregulated ( ST17 ).
The correlation of the differe ntially expressed protein
signatures noted above with overall patient survival was also
assessed in the CPTAC-PDAC cohort. Upregulated expression
of CD44, CDH3, FNDC3B, HMGA2, ITGA3, MET, PPP1R14B,
and PLOD2 and downregulation of KIAA0513, OTC, and LYZ
were associated with poor survival ( Figures 11A ,B).
Representative immunohistochemistry images from the human
proteome atlas further con ﬁrmed the level of expression of the
above proteins in PDAC tissues ( 71)(SF6).
3.11 Univariate and multivariate cox
regression analysis of PLAU correlated
(survival-related) proteins and different
clinicopathological factors
To rule out the bias caused by the survival-related clinical
parameters in the following analysis, we obtained the clinical
dataset from CPTAC-PDAC and screened for the survival-relatedclinical index by univariate and multivariate cox regression
analysis. Univariate Cox regression analyses of the CPTAC-
PDAC clinical dataset identi ﬁed eight proteins (out of the 12)
and weight, histological grade, distant metastasis, tumour stage,
residual tumour, and tobacco smoking history as individual
prognostic factors ( Figure 12A ). Multivariate Cox regression
analysis demonstrated that three prognostic proteins ( PLAU ,
ITGA3, and PPP1R14B expression) and two clinicopathological
factors (tumour stage and tobacco smoking history) were
signiﬁcantly associated with poor survival ( Figure 12B ).
3.12 PLAU and correlated signatures are
associated with the basal subtype
of PDAC
Identifying the subtypes of pancreatic cancer could assist
with providing the patient with a more accurate prognosis
prediction and may also allow precise and effective therapy.
Therefore, the association of upregulated PLAU protein with
survival in patients bearing tumours of PDAC basal and classical
subtypes was explored ( 6). The basal/squamous subtype is
characterised by mainly low expression of GATA6 with gene
signatures enriched for the in ﬂammation, hypoxia response,
metabolic reprogramming and TGF- bsignalling, and is also
characterised by resistance to chemotherapy and poor outcomes.On the other hand, the classical subtype is characterised by high
expression of GATA6 , KRAS dependency, chemoresponsiveness
and a better clinical outcome ( 4,72). Using the CPTAC-PDAC
cohort, we found that upregulation of PLAU protein was
associated with poor survival ( Figure 13A , P=0.0044). Further,
a comparison of the survival outcome in basal vs classical clearly
shows that the basal group of patients is more at risk of poor
prognosis than the classical type ( Figure 13B ). Assessment of
PLAU protein expression in basal and classical types
BC D E A
FIGURE 8
PLAU upregulation is associated with aggressive phenotypes of PDAC. Markers of an aggressive phenotype of PDAC were positively correlated
with the high PLAU expressing group (HEG) compared to the low PLAU expression group (LEG), as depicted for (A)the tumour cell proliferation
and growth index marker, MKI67, Wilcoxon rank-sum test, P= 0.02 (B)EMT Wilcoxon rank-sum test, P= 1.567e −05,(C)tumour stemness,
Wilcoxon Rank Sum Test, P=0.0001, (D)ECM degradation, Wilcoxon Rank Sum Test, P= 1.514e −05(D, E) hypoxia, Wilcoxon Rank Sum Test, P=
3.4e−07.Hosen et al. 10.3389/ ﬁmmu.2022.1060957
Frontiers in Immunology frontiersin.org 13demonstrated that PLAU was signi ﬁcantly more expressed in the
basal group than in the classical type (log2FC=0.80, p<0.001,
Figure 13C ). Furthermore, in all three PDAC cohorts (TCGA,
ICGC and OICR PDAC cohorts), high PLAU gene expression
was positively correlated with basal markers including S100A2(R=0.48, p=4.57E-10), FAM83A (R=0.55, p= 4.38E-13), IGTA3
(R=0.45, p= 1.14E-08), KRT5 (R=0.45, p= 6.81E-09), and
C16orf74 (R=0.64, p= 2.48E-18) and negatively correlated with
classical molecular subtype markers including GATA6 (R=-0.57,
p= 2.93E-14) TFF2 (R=-0.42, p= 1.20E-07), REG4 (R=-0.40, p=
B
CA
FIGURE 9
Association of PLAU upregulation with an immunosuppressive landscape in the TCGA PDAC cohort. Markers of an immunosuppressive
landscape in PDAC were positively correlated with the high PLAU expressing group (HEG) compared to the low PLAU expression group (LEG), as
evidenced by (A)a high stromal score (Wilcoxon rank-sum test, P=0.04) and a low immune score (Wilcoxon rank-sum test, P=0.45), (B)low
scores for immune stimulatory signatures CD8+ T cells (Wilcoxon rank-sum test, P=0.01), NK cells (Wilcoxon rank-sum test, P=0.05), and type 2IFN (Wilcoxon rank-sum test, P=0.0005), (C)high scores for immune inhibitory signatures including CAFs (Wilcoxon rank-sum test, P=0.0001),
macrophages (Wilcoxon rank-sum test, P=0.001), cancer-testis antigens (Wilcoxon rank-sum test, P=0.02), Type 1 IFN (Wilcoxon rank-sum test,
P=0.02), PI genes (Wilcoxon rank-sum test, P=0.001), PD-L1(Wilcoxon rank-sum test, P=0.03), PDL-2(Wilcoxon rank-sum test, P=0.006), andTGFB1 (Wilcoxon rank-sum test, P=0.001).Hosen et al. 10.3389/ ﬁmmu.2022.1060957
Frontiers in Immunology frontiersin.org 145.98E-07), LGALS4 (R=-0.39, p= 7.45E-07), and DDC (R=-0.44,
p= 2.22E-08) ( 4,6,73,74)(ST 18 ). Of note, survival analysis in
the basal group patients demonstrated poor survival outcomes
when strati ﬁed into the PLAU high group compared to the
PLAU low group ( Figure 13D , P=0.018). Further survival
analysis between PLAU high basal versus PLAU high classical
shows that even though upregulation of PLAU is found in both
basal and classical group patients, PLAU high basal is worse than
PLAU high classical ( SF7B , P<0.0001). Consequently, the high
and the low in the classical group patients demonstrated no
signiﬁcant association with poor survival ( SF7A , P=0.9). These
results support the concept that upregulation of PLAU protein is
clinically associated with the poorest survival outcomes in the
basal subtype of PDAC.
3.13 Effect of uPA - inhibition and
Gemcitabine on tumour volume and
metastasis in vivo
Finally, we assessed the effects of uPA inhibition on tumour
growth and metastasis using the uPA inhibitor BB230F at 3mg(U3) and 10mg (U10)/kg body weight alongside the standard of
care drug gemcitabine in an earl y intervention orthotopic
xenograft mouse model of pancreatic cancer ( Figure 14A ). In
this model, we observed that uPA inhibition (with U10) was
comparable to Gemcitabine in reducing primary tumour volume
at the endpoint. Importantly, uPA inhibition was signi ﬁcantly
superior to Gemcitabine in reducing liver metastasis (key site in
this model), with U10-treated mice showing no evidence of
metastasis ( Figures 14B ,C,SF9A-B andST20 ) in the liver. The
absence of liver metastases in all animals treated with U10 was
conﬁrmed by histology. Since one of the main mechanisms
underlying metastasis is increased EMT of cancer cells, we
measured EMT in the model by assessing the ratio of
expression of the mesenchymal marker vimentin to the
epithelial marker E-Cadherin. An increase in the vimentin: E-
cadherin ratio is an indicator of increased EMT. In the
orthotopic tumours in this model, we found that whilevimentin expression was unchanged, E-cadherin expression
was signi ﬁcantly elevated in U10-treated mice compared to the
other groups in Figures 14D-F , suggesting inhibition of cancer
cell EMT by PLAU inhibition. We support these observations
using the CPTAC-PDAC cohort, whereby patients in the upper
BA
FIGURE 10
Association of PLAU upregulation with the immune ratios in the TCGA PDAC cohort. (A)CD8+ T cells/CD4+ T cell (P= 0.003) and pro-/anti-
inﬂammatory cytokines (P= 0.005), signi ﬁcantly lower in the high expression group (HEG) of PLAU and (B), the PLAU expression is negatively
correlated with CD8A/PD-L1 (Pearson ’s correlation R=-0.59, P= 3.562e-15) and CD8A/PD-L2 (Pearson ’s correlation R=-0.21, P= 0.01).Hosen et al. 10.3389/ ﬁmmu.2022.1060957
Frontiers in Immunology frontiersin.org 15quartile of the PLAU expression group exhibited a signi ﬁcant
decrease in E-cadherin and an increase of vimentin compared to
patients in the lower quartile of the PLAU expression group
(Figures 14G ,H). Furthermore, immunostaining for the stem
cell marker ALDH1A1, which plays a role in recurrence,metastasis, and treatment resistance, demonstrated that U10
signiﬁcantly decreased ALDH1A1 expression compared to the
mice treated with control and Gemcitabine alone ( SF8A ,B),
suggesting that the uPA inhibition may inhibit cancer stemness.
4 Discussion
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is an overly
aggressive cancer with very high recurrence rates and the
poorest prognosis of all solid malignancies. The early and rapid
development of metastasis (often seen before the detection of a
sizeable pancreatic mass) is the primary driver of the poor clinical
outcome of this cancer ( 75–78).
uPA and its cell surface receptor uPAR play a role in multiple
stages of tumorigenesis, especially cancer progression (e.g., ECM
degradation and EMT) ( 7,24–27,33–41). Moreover, clinicalevidence demonstrates that high PLAU mRNA expression is
associated with signi ﬁcantly worse clinicopathological
characteristics and poor prognosis in PC patients ( 79,80). In
this study, we have elucidated the key molecular pathways
modulated by or associated with PLAU upregulation. This will
not only enable better prediction of clinical outcomes but
importantly may help stratify and identify patients who may
best bene ﬁt from therapeutic targeting of the uPA.
Using TCGA, CCLE and GEO databases, we have
convincingly demonstrated that PLAU mRNA levels were
signiﬁcantly upregulated in 44 PDAC cell lines derived from
primary or metastatic tumours compared to normal tissues.
Importantly, analysis of the TCGA and ICGC PDAC cohorts
conﬁrmed the prognostic value of PLAU in pancreatic cancer.
Validation of this ﬁnding at the protein level was obtained by
analysis of the CPTAC-PDAC cohort, which demonstrated that
high PLAU protein expression was signi ﬁcantly correlated with
poor survival in PDAC patients.
To help understand the mechanisms mediating PLAU -
associated poor survival, gene signatures that were commonly
positively or negatively correlated with PLAU upregulation were
identi ﬁed in the TCGA, ICGC and OICR PDAC-speci ﬁc
BA
FIGURE 11
Association of differentially expressed proteins and survival in PDAC. In the CPTAC-PDAC cohort, Kaplan-Meier analysis shows that poor overall
survival (OS) was correlated (A)high expression of MET (log-rank test, P= 0.0061), CDH3 (log-rank test, P= 0.0013), ITGA3 (log-rank test, P=
0.031), FNDC3B (log-rank test, P= 0.036), HMGA2 (log-rank test, P= 0.031), PPP1R14B (log-rank test, P= 0.04), and PLOD2 (log-rank test, P=
0.05) CD44 (log-rank test, P= 0.05), and (B)low expression of LYZ (log-rank test, P= 0.029), KIAA0513 (log-rank test, P= 0.037), and OTC (log-
rank test, P= 0.05).Hosen et al. 10.3389/ ﬁmmu.2022.1060957
Frontiers in Immunology frontiersin.org 16cohorts. Analysis of these correlated genes revealed that PLAU
upregulation was associated with gene signatures mainly
encoding transcription facto r s ,c y t o k i n e s ,g r o w t hf a c t o r s ,
protein kinases and oncogene, which are involved with
epithelial-mesenchymal tran sition, ECM degradation, cell
proliferation, hypoxia, angiogenesis, stemness and metastasis.
Survival analysis revealed that in the TCGA-PDAC cohort, 6%
of positive and 7% of negatively correlated gene signatures were
associated with poor survival. The key genes and their functions
are summarised in Table 1 . Of the downregulated genes in colon
(81) and ovarian ( 82) cancer, PPARGC1A was reported as a
tumour suppressor, and downregulation is associated with poor
survival in colon cancer ( 83). However, the signi ﬁcance of the
remaining downregulated genes in PDAC prognosis needs to
be explored.
Examination of the protein-protein interaction network
revealed that PLAU interacted directly with 31 positively
correlated signatures that are active in oncogenesis hypoxia,
proliferation, ECM degradation and EMT. On the other hand,
PLAU interacted directly with one negatively correlated gene,ANG (angiogenin), the high expression of which is reported to
be favourable in pancreatic cancer ( 84).
Gene set enrichment analysis con ﬁrmed that PLAU and its
positively correlated signatures were involved with pathways
that play a role in cancers. In contrast, PLAU and its negatively
correlated signatures were predominantly related to the
downregulation of metabolic pathways. With respect to the
former group, 11 main pathways were identi ﬁed, as depicted
inFigure 5 . Of particular interest are the following: i) the
Hedgehog signalling pathway - known to be involved in early
pancreatic cancer tumorigenesis ( 85). A component of this
pathway Sonic HH (SHH), is increased more than 40-fold in
pancreatic cancer stem cells responsible for tumour recurrence
(86,87). Li et al. showed that hypoxia-induced ROS production
increases the expression of PLAU and MMP2 in pancreatic
cancer cells through the Hh signalling pathway to facilitate
invasion and metastasis ( 88). ii) the metabolic pathway
glycosaminoglycan biosynthe sis - chondroitin sulfate that
facilitates invasiveness of c ancer cells by supporting the
adhesion of various cells such as ﬁbroblasts or leukocytes in
BA
FIGURE 12
Identi ﬁcation of prognostic factors by univariate and multivariate analyses (A)Univariate Cox regression analysis of the following as individual
prognostic factors: eight proteins (PLAU, MET, ITGA3, CDH3, FNDC3B, HMGA2, KIAA0513, OTC), weight, histological grade, distant metastasis,tumour stage, residual tumour, and tobacco smoking history. (B)Multivariate analysis identi ﬁed three proteins (PLAU, ITGA3, and PPP1R14B),
tumour stage and tobacco smoking history as signi ﬁcant prognostic factors.Hosen et al. 10.3389/ ﬁmmu.2022.1060957
Frontiers in Immunology frontiersin.org 17the TME which are the source of growth factors and ECM ‐
degrading enzymes that en able local migration and
dissemination of cancer cells ( 89,90). Interestingly,
upregulation of components of this pathway, chondroitin anddermatan sulfate, has been reported in pancreatic tumours ( 91).
iii) the Wnt signalling pathway, one of the critical cascades
regulating development and stemness in cancer ( 92). This
pathway is known to be crit ical to the initiation and
progression of PDAC ( 93). iv) the TGF-beta signalling
pathway which is most signi ﬁcantly involved in EMT
induction in pancreatic cancer cells through activation of
ERK/MAPK, PI3K, p38, JNK, RhoA, and other signalling
pathways ( 36–38).
Intriguingly, PLAU upregulation and its negatively
correlated gene signatures were found to be associated with
the downregulation of a large number of metabolic pathways.
Such downregulation could be attributed to a severely hypoxic
environment in the tumour as a result of pronounced
desmoplasia that limits oxygen diffusion ( 94,95). Indeed, wefound a signi ﬁcant increase in hypoxia in the high expression
group of PLAU (Figures 6A ,Cand8E). Given the central role of
PSCs in the production of desmoplasia, it was also of interest
that a signi ﬁcant correlation was identi ﬁed between PLAU
upregulation and activated PSC abundance (R= 0.41,
P=2.754e-07) as well as between PLAU upregulation and
Hypoxia-inducible factor-1 aexpression (R= 0.53, P<2.2e-16),
a known PSC activation factor.
Moreover, PLAU upregulation is negatively associated with
these pathways, suggesting th at downregulation of critical
metabolic pathways in pancreatic cancer patients may result in
worse outcomes. Evidence suggests that metabolic disorders and
failure of immunosurveillance to prevent malignancies are key
drivers of cancer progression. The tumour immune escape
phenomenon can be induced by several factors, including the
loss of antigenicity, the loss of immunogenicity, and the
immunosuppressive tumour microenvironment (TME), which
are orchestrated by nutrient limitation and the build ‐up of
speciﬁc metabolites and signalling molecules ( 96,97).
B
CDA
FIGURE 13
PLAU upregulation is associated with the basal type of PDAC. (A)In the CPTAC-PDAC cohort, (A, B) Kaplan-Meier survival curves show that
increased PLAU protein expression is associated with poor prognosis (log-rank test, P=0044), and the basal subtype of PDAC is associated withworse survival than the classical subtype. (C)PLAU protein is signi ﬁcantly upregulated in the basal group than classical subtype (Log2FC=0.80,
P<0.001); and (D)within the basal subtype, the clinical outcome in the high PLAU expression group is signi ﬁcantly worse than the low PLAU
expression group (log-rank test, P=0.018).Hosen et al. 10.3389/ ﬁmmu.2022.1060957
Frontiers in Immunology frontiersin.org 18The activation of the uPA/uPAR system has been reported to
drives aerobic glycolysis (Warburg effect) in melanoma cell lines
even in normoxic conditions, and this activation depends on the
a5b1-integrin-mediated uPAR connection with EGFR with the
engagement of the PI3K-mTOR-HIF apathway ( 98). It has been
established that the transcription factor HIF-1 apromotes
aerobic glycolysis and regulates tumour invasion and
metabolism ( 99). Moreover, in this energy-deprived milieu,
PLAU upregulation was also found to induce more hypoxia
and activate the TGF beta pathway, thereby further increasing
tumour immune suppression. Based on the above, it would bereasonable to speculate that uPA may participate in altering and/
or downregulating metabolic pathways and in facilitating an
immunosuppressive environment, thereby ultimately enhancing
tumour progression.
PLAU upregulation was also associated with other PSC-
derived factors and pathways that are thought to mediate the
well-established bidirectional interaction between PSCs and
PDAC cells. Activated PSCs markers that were positively
correlated with PLAU (Pearson correlation test R>0.30,
P<0.05), including CDH11 [Cadherin-11 is elevated in PSCs
and is related to PC cells migration ( 100)),MME (or CD10+
BC
D
E
FG HA
FIGURE 14
In vivo study to assess the effects of PLAU/uPA inhibition and Gemcitabine on tumour progression in an orthotopic model of pancreatic cancer
(A)Flowchart depicting study design for the orthotopic model. (B)Effects of Gemcitabine (G), uPA inhibitor BB230F 3 and 10 mg/kg body
weight (U3) (U10), respectively, on endpoint primary tumour volume. Mice bearing orthotopic pancreatic tumours received G, 75 mg/kg bodyweight twice weekly or U3 or U10 by daily intraperitoneal injections for 28 days. Both gemcitabine and uPA inhibitors signi ﬁcantly reduced
tumour volume (n = 5 mice/group). (C)uPA inhibition signi ﬁcantly reduced (U3) or completely abolished (U10) liver metastases in mice, while
Gemcitabine did not have any effect on metastasis compared to untreated controls. (n = 5 mice/group). (D, E) Immunostaining for the
mesenchymal marker vimentin and epithelial marker E-Cadherin. Representative photomicrographs depicting staining for E-cadherin andvimentin in mouse pancreas. (F)Morphometric analysis shows that while vimentin expression was unchanged by the treatments, E-cadherin
expression was signi ﬁcantly increased in U10 compared to controls (n = 5 mice/group). E-cadherin and vimentin (EMT markers), scale bars =
100mm.(G, H) In the CPTAC-PDAC cohort, protein expression analysis of EMT markers indicates that patients in the upper quartile of PLAU
expression exhibit low E-cadherin (T-test, LogFC=-0.22 P=0.018) and high vimentin levels (T-test, LogFC=0.27 P<0.01) compared to lowerquartile group, suggesting increased EMT in the tumours with upregulated PLAU expression.Hosen et al. 10.3389/ ﬁmmu.2022.1060957
Frontiers in Immunology frontiersin.org 19PSCs augment the aggressiveness of PDAC ( 101)],LGALS1
[Galectin-1 plays role in the development and maintenance of
an immunosuppressive microenvironment and promotes PDAC
cells metastasis ( 102 –104)],FERMT2 [progression of pancreatic
cancer ( 105)),S100A4 (mesenchymal markers increased in
activated PSCs ( 106)],TGFb1 [TGF-beta signalling in activated
PSCs promote ECM accumulation, induced EMT etc. ( 107,
108)],POSTN [promote cancer cell survival, EMT, invasion,
and metastasis ( 109,110)],Runx2 [regulate the transcription of
extracellular matrix modulators SPARC andMMP1 and impact
the tumour microenvironment ( 111)],IL-1 [immune
suppression ( 112,113)],IL8(crosstalk with endothelial cells
(20)),PGDF (proliferation and angiogenesis ( 20,114)) and
PLOD2 (creates a permissive microenvironment for migration
of cancer cells ( 115)).
The prominent ECM in PDAC not only supports cancer
progression by directly promoting cellular transformation and
metastasis but also affects the function of stromal cells to induce
angiogenesis and in ﬂammation, thereby resulting in a pro-
tumorigenic microenvironment ( 116,117). ECM proteins have
also been recognised as essential components of the metastatic
niche to maintain cancer stem cell properties and enable the
outgrowth of metastasis-initiating cells ( 118 –120). Therefore, an
analysis of the association of PLAU and speci ﬁc ECM markers
and their prognostic signi ﬁcance was also undertaken in this
study. 49 ECM gene signatures were found to be correlated with
PLAU , of which three, namely, secreted factors S100A16 (cancer-
cell –derived), ECM regulator PLOD2 (PSC-derived) and ECM
regulator TGM2 (cancer and stromal cell-derived) were
signiﬁcantly associated with poor survival in the TCGA-PDAC
cohort. However, survival analysis using the CPTAC cohort
revealed that only PLOD2 protein upregulation was signi ﬁcantly
associated with poor survival ( Figure 11A , PLOD2).
The immune system is now recognised to play a central role
in cancer biology. There have been no studies to date assessing
the association between PLAU expression and immune
signatures in PDAC. This study has shown for the ﬁrst time
that PLAU expression correlates closely with immune gene
signatures in three PDAC cohorts. In fact, upregulation of
PLAU was associated with immune inhibitory rather than
immune-stimulatory signatures. This concurs with the
observed association of PLAU with growth factors and
cytokines known to promote an immunosuppressivetumour microenvironment.
In view of the positive association discussed above between
PLAU and its correlated signatures and factors that signify
tumour aggressiveness, high and low PLAU groups in the
TCGA-PDAC cohort were analysed. The results con ﬁrmed
that tumours of patients with high PLAU gene expression also
exhibited signi ﬁcantly increased proliferation, EMT, stemness,
ECM degradation, hypoxia and immunosuppressive TME.
These results suggest that PLAU and its correlated signatures
induce an aggressive cancer phenotype leading to poor survival.As outlined above, this study has clearly established that
dysregulated PLAU and its correlated gene signatures have the
potential to confer a poor prognosis for PDAC. However,
without knowledge of related changes in the proteome, the
usefulness of prognosis prediction based on only gene
expression remains a challenge. Proteins are the key functional
drivers of cancer biology, providing a link between genotype and
phenotype and are common targets of anticancer drugs. Thus itis important to note that, using the CPTAC-PDAC cohort, most
of the PLAU correlated prognostic gene markers identi ﬁed in the
TCGA-PDAC cohort were also found to be differentially
expressed at the protein level. Eleven proteins were associated
with poor survival, including upregulated CD44, CDH3,
FNDC3B, HMGA2, ITGA3, MET, PPP1R14B, and PLOD2
and downregulated KIAA0513, OTC, and LYZ. We further
conﬁrmed their expression level in HPA. Out of 11 ITGA3,
MET, FNDC3B, PPP1R14B and KIAA0513, including PLAU ,
were previously reported as individual prognostic markers in the
pancreatic cancer TCGA-PAAD cohort ( 84). However, we have
shown these for the ﬁrst time in PDAC as prognostic markers in
our analysis at the transcriptome and proteome levels.
Univariate analysis showed that PLAU , CDH3, FNDC3B,
HMGA2, ITGA3, MET, KIAA0513, OTC, weight, histological
grade, distant metastasis, tumour stage, residual tumour, and
smoking are individual prognostic factors for PDAC. Notably,
multivariate analysis revealed that PLAU protein upregulation in
association with ITGA3, and PPP1R14B expression, tumour
stage, and smoking history could predict poor overall survivalin PDAC. Overexpression of ITGA3 was con ﬁrmed in PDAC
clinical specimens and associated with poor prognosis ( 121).
Pan-cancer analysis revealed that increased PPP1R14B
expression correlated with poor prognosis and increased
immune in ﬁltration levels in myeloid-derived suppressor cells
(MDSCs), and PPP1R14B could be used as a prognostic
biomarker for pan-cancer ( 122).
The systematic approach used in this study, based on
integrated proteotranscriptomics data, supports a major role
for the PLAU gene and its corresponding protein (uPA) in
driving an aggressive metastatic phenotype of PDAC associated
with an immunosuppressed TME. The challenge in using this
knowledge to develop PLAU -targeted treatment is the well-
known heterogeneity of this disease. Therefore, accurate
patient strati ﬁcation is essential to ensure optimal outcomes of
targeted therapies. To this end, this study also sought to identify
whether speci ﬁc subtypes of PDAC were associated with PLAU
upregulation. As noted earlier, the commonest classi ﬁcation of
PDAC is based on the morphological features of the tumour,
with patients being classi ﬁed as having classical or basal-like
subtypes of PDAC ( 123). Interestingly, this study found a strong
correlation between PLAU upregulation and basal type of PDAC
while negatively correlated with classical type gene signatures.
Pathway analysis further revealed that PLAU upregulation was
directly associated with vital oncogenic pathways (WNT, WNTHosen et al. 10.3389/ ﬁmmu.2022.1060957
Frontiers in Immunology frontiersin.org 20beta-Catenin ( 93,124,125) and EMT (TGF beta ( 126) pathways
as well as with hypoxia and ECM-rich stroma, all characteristic
of basal PDAC ( 127 –129). Finally, the acquisition of all the
malignant phenotypes in the high PLAU group supports the
basal type PDAC association with PLAU . The association of high
PLAU with the basal PDAC subtype was also validated at the
protein level using the CPTAC-PDAC cohort, as was the
correlation of the basal subtype with poor survival(Figures 13B-D andSF7).
Importantly, we have validated the concept of a key role for
PLAU /uPA in cancer progression and its potential as a
therapeutic target by performing studies in an orthotopic
pancreatic tumour model. Our underlying initial strategy for
this study was also to compare a non-chemotherapy targeted
approach (uPA inhibitor) with a single agent well-tolerated
chemotherapy so as to minimise toxic effects while, at the
same time, potentially increasing treatment ef ﬁcacy. This
approach has resulted in very encouraging results where uPA
inhibition alone signi ﬁcantly reduced tumour growth to a degree
similar to Gemcitabine. Cru cially, uPA inhibition was
signiﬁcantly superior to Gemcitabine in reducing metastasis,
with U10-treated mice showing no evidence of metastasis. The
inhibition of metastasis by uPA inhibition is likely mediated by
the decrease in EMT and stemness evident in U10-treated mice.
Using uPA knock-out cells Fang et al. has convincingly
demonstrated that the knockdown PLAU in KYSE-30 cells
exhibited signi ﬁcantly reduced tumour growth and weight
than the control (normal uPA expression) group, while the
PLAU overexpression group exhibited increased tumour
growth and weight compared with the control group ( 27).In
vitro studies using pancreatic cancer cell lines have shown that
the knockdown of uPA reduces cancer cell migration, invasion
and viability ( 130).Multiple in vivo studies have shown that
inhibiting uPA with antibodies, uPA-directed prodrugs or
radioisotopes and small molecule inhibitors alone or in
combination with other drugs can block cancer growth,
invasion and metastasis in prostate and breast cancer ( 131 –
135). In addition, uPA inhibitors have also demonstrated very
encouraging outcomes in clinical trials for the treatment of
different types of solid tumours ( 136,137), including using
Upamostat (WX-671, Mesupron) in advanced pancreatic
cancer patients ( 138,139).
This study has yielded novel ﬁndings regarding PLAU and its
role in PDAC tumour progression using comprehensive and
integrated transcriptomic/proteomic bioinformatic analyses.
Moreover, since upregulation of PLAU
levels is also frequently
observed in a number of malignancies and upregulation of PLAU
is a prognostic marker not only in pancreatic cancer but also in
head and neck, endometrial cancer, renal and lung ( 42), breast
(140) and oesophageal cancer ( 27). In light of the above, it is
highly likely that the approach used in our study for pancreatic
cancer could be a promising approach for several other cancers.
However, the study does have limitations. All clinical cohorts inthis study (with small sampl e size) primarily comprised
Caucasians or Africans; therefore, caution must be exercised to
extrapolate the ﬁndings to patients of other ethnicities. The
orthotopic xenograft model of pancreatic cancer used in this
study involved using a mixture of human cancer cells and
human pancreatic stellate cells that provided strong support for
our concept that uPA drives pancreatic cancer progression.
However, the mice were necessarily immunode ﬁcient, and as
such, the model did not lend itself to characterise any immune
inﬁltration into the tumours accurately. The ﬁndings derived from
our in silico and in vivo analyses need to be validated
experimentally in more depth, a step currently being pursued in
our laboratory. In this regard, we are evaluating the effects of
inhibiting uPA in a clinically representative orthotopic mouse
model (early and advanced) of PDAC in both immune-de ﬁcient
and immune-competent (syngeneic KPC model, where a mixture
of mouse cancer cells and mouse pancreatic stellate cells is
implanted into the KPC mouse pancreas) settings with more
numbers of mice. The immune cell landscape in this model closely
resembles that of human pancreatic cancer with in ﬁltration of
myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSC), Treg cells and a few
CD8+ cytotoxic T cells ( 141 –143). Future work will also combine
inhibition with multiagent chemotherapy to further optimise
outcomes or to demonstrate that single-agent chemotherapy +
targeted therapy may be preferred to current multiagent strategies
in selected patients. In search of treatment alternatives, we also
hypothesise that in basal-like tumours, since upregulation of the
PLAU group has higher hypoxia scores and higher
immunosuppressive tumour signatures (PD-L1 and PD-L2)
than the anti-tumour immune signature (CD8+ T cells), which
may be predictive of immunotherapy (in combination with uPA
and plus-minus chemotherapy) in this chemo resistant.
5 Conclusion
For the ﬁrst time, this study has comprehensively revealed
the signi ﬁcance of PLAU in PDAC development, metastasis, and
immune suppression and has demonstrated the potential
translational importance of inhibiting master regulator PLAU
protein in basal type PDAC patients. Thus, it would not be
unreasonable to hypothesise that selectively inhibiting PLAU
(with and without chemo/immune therapy) in patients withbasal PDAC may represent a novel and effective therapeutic
approach to improve patient outcomes.
Data availability statement
Publicly available datasets were analyzed in this study. This
data can be found here: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gds ),
Cancer Cell Line Encyclopedia (CCLE, https://depmap.org/
portal/ccle/ ), International Cancer Genome ConsortiumHosen et al. 10.3389/ ﬁmmu.2022.1060957
Frontiers in Immunology frontiersin.org 21(ICGC, https://icgc.org/ ), the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA,
http://cancergenome.nih.gov/ ), the National Cancer Institute ’s
Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium (CPTAC,
https://pdc.cancer.gov/pdc/ ) and the Ontario Institute for
Cancer Research (OICR) PDAC cohort ’gene expression and
clinical data are only available upon through a data access
agreement with referenced institute.
Ethics statement
The animal study was reviewed and approved by University
of New South Wales Animal Care and Ethics Committee
(Approval Number 18/125B) a nd accomplished under
ARRIVE guidelines.
Author contributions
SH. designed experiments, acquired and analysed data,
interpreted results, and wrote and revised the manuscript. MU
helped analysed data and interpret bioinformatics results. ZX
acquired data for in vivo experiments; BB synthesized and
prepared formulation for in vivo study. CP acquired data for
in vitro experiments. TP helped to interpret the results. AM
acquired data for in vivo experiments. MM helped to interpret
the bioinformatics results. FN and SG acquired OICR-cohort
data. RP helped to interpret results and revised manuscript. JW
helped to interpret results and revised manuscript. MR helped to
interpret results and revised manuscript. DG helped to interpret
results, and revised manuscript and MA conceived, designed the
study and experiments, interpreted results, and revised
manuscript. All authors contributed to the article and
approved the submitted version.Funding
This work was supported by a grant from Avner Pancreatic
Cancer Foundation (RG172336) and UNSW Scientia Scholarship.
This study was also conducted with the support of the Ontario
Institute for Cancer Research (P anCuRx Translational Research
Initiative) through funding provided by the Government of
Ontario, the Wallace McCain Centre for Pancreatic Cancer
supported by the Princess Margaret Cancer Foundation, the
Terry Fox Research Institute, the Canadian Cancer Society
Research Institute, and the Pancre atic Cancer Canada Foundation.
Conﬂict of interest
The authors declare that the research was conducted in the
absence of any commercial or ﬁnancial relationships that could
be construed as a potential con ﬂict of interest.
Publisher ’s note
All claims expressed in this article are solely those of the
authors and do not necessarily represent those of their af ﬁliated
organizations, or those of the publisher, the editors and the
reviewers. Any product that may be evaluated in this article, or
claim that may be made by its manufacturer, is not guaranteed
or endorsed by the publisher.
Supplementary material
The Supplementary Material for this article can be found
online at: https://www.frontiersin. org/articles/10.3389/
ﬁmmu.2022.1060957/full#supplementary-material
References
1. Sung H, Ferlay J, Siegel RL, Laversanne M, Soerjomataram I, Jemal A, et al.
Global cancer statistics 2020: GLOBOCAN estimates of incidence and mortalityworldwide for 36 cancers in 185 countries. CA: Cancer J Clin (2021) 71(3):209 –49.
doi:10.3322/caac.21660
2. Rahib L, Smith BD, Aizenberg R, Rosenzweig AB, Fleshman JM, Matrisian
LM. Projecting cancer incidence and deaths to 2030: The unexpected burden of
thyroid, liver, and pancreas cancers in the united states. Cancer Res (2014) 74
(11):2913 –21. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-14-0155
3. Chun JW, Lee SH, Kim JS, Park N, Huh G, Cho IR, et al. Comparison
between FOLFIRINOX and gemcitabine plus nab-paclitaxel including sequentialtreatment for metastatic pancreatic cancer: A propensity score matching approach.BMC Cancer (2021) 21(1):537. doi: 10.1186/s12885-021-08277-7
4. Bailey P, Chang DK, Nones K, Johns AL, Patch A-M, Gingras M-C, et al.
Genomic analyses identify molecular subtypes of pancreatic cancer. Nature (2016)
531(7592):47 –52. doi: 10.1038/nature16965
5. Collisson EA, Sadanandam A, Olson P, Gibb WJ, Truitt M, Gu S, et al.
Subtypes of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma and their differing responses to
therapy. Nat Med (2011) 17(4):500 –3. doi: 10.1038/nm.23446. Mof ﬁtt RA, Marayati R, Flate EL, Volmar KE, Loeza SGH, Hoadley KA, et al.
Virtual microdissection identi ﬁes distinct tumor-and stroma-speci ﬁc subtypes of
pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. Nat Genet (2015) 47(10):1168 –78. doi: 10.1038/
ng.3398
7. Kumar AA, Buckley BJ, Ranson M. The urokinase plasminogen activation
system in pancreatic cancer: Prospective diagnostic and therapeutic targets.
Biomolecules (2022) 12(2):152. doi: 10.3390/biom12020152
8. Chan-Seng-Yue M, Kim JC, Wilson GW, Ng K, Figueroa EF, O ’Kane GM,
et al. Transcription phenotypes of pancreatic cancer are driven by genomic eventsduring tumor evolution. Nat Genet (2020) 52(2):231 –40. doi: 10.1038/s41588-019-
0566-9
9. Puleo F, Nicolle R, Blum Y, Cros J, Marisa L, Demetter P, et al. Strati ﬁcation
of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas based on tumor and microenvironmentfeatures. Gastroenterology (2018) 155(6):1999 –2013. e3. doi: 10.1053/
j.gastro.2018.08.033
10. Kim S, Kang MJ, Lee S, Bae S, Han S, Jang J-Y, et al. Identifying molecular
subtypes related to clinicopathologic factors in pancreatic cancer. Biomed Eng
Online (2014) 13(2):1 –11. doi: 10.1186/1475-925X-13-S2-S5Hosen et al. 10.3389/ ﬁmmu.2022.1060957
Frontiers in Immunology frontiersin.org 2211. Namkung J, Kwon W, Choi Y, Yi SG, Han S, Kang MJ, et al. Molecular
subtypes of pancreatic cancer based on miRNA expression pro ﬁles have
independent prognostic value. J Gastroenterol Hepatol (2016) 31(6):1160 –7. doi:
10.1111/jgh.13253
12. Janky RS, Binda MM, Allemeersch J, Govaere O, Swinnen JV, Roskams T,
et al. Prognostic relevance of molecu lar subtypes and master regulators in
pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. BMC Cancer (2016) 16(1):1 –15. doi: 10.1186/
s12885-016-2540-6
13. Birnbaum DJ, Finetti P, Birnbaum D, Mamessier E, Bertucci F. Validation
and comparison of the molecular classi ﬁcations of pancreatic carcinomas. Mol
Cancer (2017) 16(1):1 –7. doi: 10.1186/s12943-017-0739-z
14. Moore MJ, Goldstein D, Hamm J, Figer A, Hecht JR, Gallinger S, et al.
Erlotinib plus gemcitabine compared with gemcitabine alone in patients with
advanced pancreatic cancer: A phase III trial of the national cancer institute ofCanada clinical trials group. J Clin Oncol (2007) 25(15):1960 –6. doi: 10.1200/
JCO.2006.07.9525
15. Royal RE, Levy C, Turner K, Mathur A, Hughes M, Kammula US, et al.
Phase 2 trial of single agent ipilimumab (anti-CTLA-4) for locally advanced ormetastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma. J Immunother (Hagerstown Md: 1997)
(2010) 33(8):828. doi: 10.1097/CJI.0b013e3181eec14c
16. Le DT, Lutz E, Uram JN, Sugar EA, Onners B, Solt S, et al. Evaluation of
ipilimumab in combination with allogeneic pancreatic tumor cells transfected with
a GM-CSF gene in previously treated pancreatic cancer. J Immunother
(Hagerstown Md: 1997) (2013) 36(7):382. doi: 10.1097/CJI.0b013e31829fb7a2
17. O ’Reilly EM, Oh D-Y, Dhani N, Renouf DJ, Lee MA, Sun W, et al.
Durvalumab with or without tremelimumab for patients with metastaticpancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma: A phase 2 randomized clinical trial. JAMA
Oncol (2019) 5(10):1431 –8. doi: 10.1001/jamaoncol.2019.1588
18. Wilson J, Pirola R, Apte M. Stars and stripes in pancreatic cancer: Role of
stellate cells and stroma in cancer progression. Front Physiol (2014) 5(52). doi:
10.3389/fphys.2014.00052
19. Apte MV, Xu Z, Pothula S, Goldstein D, Pirola RC, Wilson JS. Pancreatic
cancer: The microenvironment needs attention too! Pancreatology (2015) 15(4
Suppl):S32 –8. doi: 10.1016/j.pan.2015.02.013
20. Schnittert J, Bansal R, Prakash J. Targeting pancreatic stellate cells in cancer.
Trends Cancer (2019) 5(2):128 –42. doi: 10.1016/j.trecan.2019.01.001
21. Pothula SP, Xu Z, Goldstein D, Merrett N, Pirola RC, Wilson JS, et al.
Targeting the HGF/c-MET pathway: Stromal remodelling in pancreatic cancer.Oncotarget (2017) 8(44):76722. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.20822
22. Bauer TW, Liu W, Fan F, Camp ER, Yang A, Somcio RJ, et al. Targeting of
urokinase plasminogen activator receptor in human pancreatic carcinoma cellsinhibits c-Met –and insulin-like growth factor-I receptor –mediated migration and
invasion and orthotopic tumor growth in mice. Cancer Res (2005) 65(17):7775 –81.
doi:10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-05-0946
23. Tincknell G, Piper A-K, Aghmesheh M, Becker T, Vine KL, Brungs D, et al.
Experimental and clinical evidence supports t he use of urokinase plasminogen activation
system components as clinically relevant biomarkers in gastroesophageal
adenocarcinoma. Cancers (Basel) (2021) 13(16):4097. doi: 10.3390/cancers13164097
24. Ranson M, Andronicos NM. Plasminogen binding and cancer: promises
and pitfalls. Front Biosci (2003) 8:s294 –304. doi: 10.2741/1044
25. De Vries T, Van Muijen G, Ruiter D. The plasminogen activation system in
tumour invasion and metastasis. Pathol-Res Prac (1996) 192(7):718 –33. doi:
10.1016/S0344-0338(96)80094-X
26. Chen G, Sun J, Xie M, Yu S, Tang Q, Chen L. PLAU promotes cell
proliferation and epithelial-mesenchymal transition in head and neck squamouscell carcinoma. Front Genet (2021) 12. doi: 10.3389/fgene.2021.651882
27. Fang L, Che Y, Zhang C, Huang J, Lei Y, Lu Z, et al. PLAU directs
conversion of ﬁbroblasts to in ﬂammatory cancer-associated ﬁbroblasts,
promoting esophageal squamous cell carcinoma progression viauPAR/Akt/NF-
kB/IL8 pathway. Cell Death Discov (2021) 7(1):1 –14. doi: 10.1038/s41420-021-
00410-6
28. Bekes EM, Deryugina EI, Kupriyanova TA, Zajac E, Botkjaer KA, Andreasen
PA, et al. Activation of pro-uPA is critical for initial escape from the primary tumorand hematogenous dissemination of human carcinoma cells. Neoplasia (2011) 13
(9):806 –21. doi: 10.1593/neo.11704
29. Irigoyen JP, Munoz-Canoves P, Montero L, Koziczak M, Nagamine Y. The
plasminogen activator system: biology and regulation. Cell Mol Life Sciences: CMLS
(1999) 56(1-2):104 –32. doi: 10.1007/PL00000615
30. Montuori N, Rossi G, Ragno P. Post-transcriptional regulation of gene
expression in the plasminogen activation system. Biol Chem (2002) 383(1):47 –53.
doi:10.1515/BC.2002.005
31. Nagamine Y, Medcalf RL, Munoz-Canoves P. Transcriptional and
posttranscriptional regulation of the plasminogen activator system. Thromb
Haemostasis (2005) 93(4):661 –75. doi: 10.1160/TH04-12-081432. Duffy M, Duggan C. The urokinase plasminogen activator system: a rich
source of tumour markers for the individualised management of patients withcancer. Clin Biochem (2004) 37(7):541 –8. doi: 10.1016/j.clinbiochem.2004.05.013
33. Mahmood N, Mihalcioiu C, Rabbani SA. Multifaceted role of the urokinase-
type plasminogen activator (uPA) and its receptor (uPAR): Diagnostic, prognostic,and therapeutic applications. Front Oncol (2018) 8(24):. doi: 10.3389/
fonc.2018.00024
34. Masucci MT, Minopoli M, Di Carluccio G, Motti ML, Carriero MV.
Therapeutic strategies targeting urokinase and its receptor in cancer. Cancers
(Basel) (2022) 14(3):498. doi: 10.3390/cancers14030498
35. Carriero MV, Stoppelli MP. The urokinase-type plasminogen activator and
the generation of inhibitors of urokinase activity and signaling. Curr Pharm Des
(2011) 17(19):1944 –61. doi: 10.2174/138161211796718143
36. Blasi F, Carmeliet P. uPAR: a versatile signalling orchestrator.
Nat Rev Mol
Cell Biol (2002) 3(12):932 –43. doi: 10.1038/nrm977
37. Jo M, Thomas KS, Marozkina N, Amin TJ, Silva CM, Parsons SJ, et al.
Dynamic assembly of the urokinase-type plasminogen activator signaling receptorcomplex determines the mitogenic activity of urokinase-type plasminogenactivator. J Biol Chem (2005) 280(17):17449 –57. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M413141200
38. Smith HW, Marshall CJ. Regulation of cell signalling by uPAR. Nat Rev Mol
Cell Biol (2010) 11(1):23 –36. doi: 10.1038/nrm2821
39. Andreucci E, Laurenzana A, Peppicelli S, Biagioni A, Margheri F, Ruzzolini
J, et al. uPAR controls vasculogenic mimicry ability expressed by drug-resistantmelanoma cells. Oncol Res Featuring Preclinical Clin Cancer Ther (2021) 28(7-8):7 –
8. doi: 10.3727/096504021X16273798026651
40. Laurenzana A, Margheri F, Biagioni A, Chillà A, Pimpinelli N, Ruzzolini J,
et al. EGFR/uPAR interaction as druggable target to overcome vemurafenibacquired resistance in melanoma cells. EBioMedicine (2019) 39:194 –206. doi:
10.1016/j.ebiom.2018.12.024
41. Gonias SL, Hu J. Urokinase receptor and resistance to targeted anticancer
agents. Front Pharmacol (2015) 6:154. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2015.00154
42. Uhle ́n M, Fagerberg L, Hallström BM, Lindskog C, Oksvold P, Mardinoglu
A, et al. Tissue-based map of the human proteome. Science (2015) 347(6220):1 –9.
doi:10.1126/science.1260419
43. Ma Y, Pu Y, Peng L, Luo X, Xu J, Peng Y, et al. Identi ﬁcation of potential hub
genes associated with the pathogenesis and prognosis of pancreatic duct
adenocarcinoma using bioinformatics meta −analysis of multi −platform datasets.
Oncol Letters (2019) 18(6):6741 –51. doi: 10.3892/ol.2019.11042
44. Pacini C, Dempster JM, Boyle I, Gonc ̧alves E, Najgebauer H, Karakoc E,
et al. Integrated cross-study datasets of genetic dependencies in cancer. Nat
Commun (2021) 12(1):1661. doi: 10.1038/s41467-021-21898-7
45. Ghandi M, Huang FW, Jane ́-Valbuena J, Kryukov GV, Lo CC, McDonald
ER, et al. Next-generation characterization of the cancer cell line encyclopedia.Nature (2019) 569(7757):503 –8. doi: 10.1038/s41586-019-1186-3
46. Pei H, Li L, Fridley BL, Jenkins GD, Kalari KR, Lingle W, et al. FKBP51
affects cancer cell response to chemotherapy by negatively regulating akt. Cancer
Cell(2009) 16(3):259 –66. doi: 10.1016/j.ccr.2009.07.016
47. Wennerström AB, Lothe IM, Sandhu V, Kure EH, Myklebost O, Munthe E.
Generation and characterisation of novel pancreatic adenocarcinoma xenograft
models and corresponding primary cell lines. PloS One (2014) 9(8):e103873. doi:
10.1371/journal.pone.0103873
48. Jiang J, Azevedo-Pouly AC, Redis RS, Lee EJ, Gusev Y, Allard D, et al.
Globally increased ultraconserved noncoding RNA expression in pancreaticadenocarcinoma. Oncotarget (2016) 7(33):53165 –77. doi: 10.18632/
oncotarget.10242
49. Lin J, Wu YJ, Liang X, Ji M, Ying HM, Wang XY, et al. Network-based
integration of mRNA and miRNA pro ﬁles reveals new target genes involved in
pancreatic cancer. Mol Carcinog (2019) 58(2):206 –18. doi: 10.1002/mc.22920
50. Gao J, Aksoy BA, Dogrusoz U, Dresdner G, Gross B, Sumer SO, et al.
Integrative analysis of complex cancer genomics and clinical pro ﬁles using the
cBioPortal. Sci Signaling (2013) 6(269):pl1. doi: 10.1126/scisignal.2004088
51. Benjamini Y, Hochberg Y. Controlling the false discovery rate: a practical
and powerful approach to multiple testing. J R Stat Society: Ser B (Methodological)
(1995) 57(1):289 –300. doi: 10.1111/j.2517-6161.1995.tb02031.x
52. Liberzon A, Subramanian A, Pinchback R, Thorvaldsdo ́ttir H, Tamayo P,
Mesirov JP. Molecular signatures database (MSigDB) 3. 0. Bioinf (2011) 27
(12):1739 –40. doi: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btr260
53. Subramanian A, Tamayo P, Mootha VK, Mukherjee S, Ebert BL, Gillette
MA, et al. Gene set enrichment analysis: A knowledge-based approach forinterpreting genome-wide expression pro ﬁles.Proc Natl Acad Sci United States
America (2005) 102(43):15545 –50. doi: 10.1073/pnas.0506580102
54. Szklarczyk D, Gable AL, Lyon D, Junge A, Wyder S, Huerta-Cepas J, et al.
STRING v11: protein –protein association networks with increased coverage,Hosen et al. 10.3389/ ﬁmmu.2022.1060957
Frontiers in Immunology frontiersin.org 23supporting functional discovery in genome-wide experimental datasets. Nucleic
Acids Res (2019) 47(D1):D607 –13. doi: 10.1093/nar/gky1131
55. Shannon P, Markiel A, Ozier O, Baliga NS, Wang JT, Ramage D, et al.
Cytoscape: A software environment for integrated models of biomolecularinteraction networks. Genome Res (2003) 13(11):2498 –504. doi: 10.1101/
gr.1239303
56. Chin CH, Chen SH, Wu HH, Ho CW, Ko MT, Lin CY. cytoHubba:
Identifying hub objects and sub-networks from complex interactome. BMC Syst
Biol(2014) 8 Suppl 4(Suppl 4):S11. doi: 10.1186/1752-0509-8-S4-S11
57. Cran, R foundation: Therneau T. M. A Package for Survival Analysis in R .
(2020). Available at: https://CRAN.R-projectorg/package=survival .
58. Yoshihara K, Shahmoradgoli M, Mart ı ́nez E, Vegesna R, Kim H, Torres-
Garcia W, et al. Inferring tumour purity and stromal and immune cell admixture
from expression data. Nat Commun (2013) 4(1):2612. doi: 10.1038/ncomms3612
59. Bachem MG, Schneider E, Groß H, Weidenbach H, Schmid RM, Menke A,
et al. Identi ﬁcation, culture, and characterization of pancreatic stellate cells in rats
and humans. Gastroenterology (1998) 115(2):421 –32. doi: 10.1016/S0016-5085(98)
70209-4
60. Apte M, Haber P, Applegate T, Norton I, McCaughan G, Korsten M, et al.
Periacinar stellate shaped cells in rat pancreas: identi ﬁcation, isolation, and culture.
Gut(1998) 43(1):128 –33. doi: 10.1136/gut.43.1.128
61. Pothula SP, Xu Z, Goldstein D, Biankin AV, Pirola RC, Wilson JS, et al.
Hepatocyte growth factor inhibition: a novel therapeutic approach in pancreaticcancer. Br J Cancer (2016) 114(3):269 –80. doi: 10.1038/bjc.2015.478
62. Vonlaufen A, Phillips PA, Xu Z, Goldstein D, Pirola RC, Wilson JS, et al.
Pancreatic stellate cells and pancreatic cancer cells: an unholy alliance. Cancer Res
(2008) 68(19):7707 –10. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-08-1132
63. Xu Z, Pang TCY, Liu AC, Pothula SP, Mekapogu AR, Perera CJ, et al.
Targeting the HGF/c-MET pathway in advanced pancreatic cancer: A key elementof treatment that limits primary tumour growth and eliminates metastasis. Br J
Cancer (2020) 122(10):1486 –95. doi: 10.1038/s41416-020-0782-1
64. Buckley BJ, Aboelela A, Minaei E, Jiang LX, Xu Z, Ali U, et al. 6-substituted
hexamethylene amiloride (HMA) derivatives as potent and selective inhibitors ofthe human urokinase plasminogen activator for use in cancer. J Medicinal Chem
(2018) 61(18):8299 –320. doi: 10.1021/acs.jmedchem.8b00838
65. Kalimuthu S N, Wilson GW, Grant RC, Seto M, O ’Kane G, Vajpeyi R, et al.
Morphological classi ﬁcation of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma that predicts
molecular subtypes and correlates with clinical outcome. Gut(2020) 69(2):317 –28.
doi:10.1136/gutjnl-2019-318217
66. Pothula SP, Pirola RC, Wilson JS, Apte MV. Pancreatic stellate cells: Aiding
and abetting pancreatic cancer progression. Pancreatology
(2020) 20(3):409 –18.
doi:10.1016/j.pan.2020.01.003
67. Vonlaufen A, Joshi S, Qu C, Phillips PA, Xu Z, Parker NR, et al. Pancreatic
stellate cells: partners in crime with pancreatic cancer cells. Cancer Res (2008) 68
(7):2085 –93. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-07-2477
68. Xu Z, Vonlaufen A, Phillips PA, Fiala-Beer E, Zhang X, Yang L, et al. Role of
pancreatic stellate cells in pancreatic cancer metastasis. Am J Pathology (2010) 177
(5):2585 –96. doi: 10.2353/ajpath.2010.090899
69. Mekapogu A, Pothula S, Pirola R, Wilson J, Apte M. Multifunctional role of
pancreatic stellate cells in pancreatic cancer. Ann Pancreat Cancer (2019) 2(10):1 –
15. doi: 10.21037/apc.2019.05.02
70. Tian C, Clauser KR, Öhlund D, Rickelt S, Huang Y, Gupta M, et al.
Proteomic analyses of ECM during pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomaprogression reveal different contributions by tumor and stromal cells. Proc Natl
Acad Sci (2019) 116(39):19609 –18. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1908626116
71. Deutsch EW, Omenn GS, Sun Z, Maes M, Pernemalm M, Palaniappan KK,
et al. Advances and utility of the human plasma proteome. J Proteome Res (2021) 20
(12):5241 –63. doi: 10.1021/acs.jproteome.1c00657
72. Froeling FEM, Casolino R, Pea A, Biankin AV, Chang DK. Precision-panc
obo. molecular subtyping and precision medicine for pancreatic cancer. J Clin Med
(2021) 10(1):149. doi: 10.3390/jcm10010149
73. Rashid NU, Peng XL, Jin C, Mof ﬁtt RA, Volmar KE, Belt BA, et al. Purity
independent subtyping of tumors (PurIST), a clinically robust, single-sampleclassi ﬁer for tumor subtyping in pancreatic cancer. Clin Cancer Res (2020) 26
(1):82 –92. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-19-1467
74. Somerville TD, Xu Y, Miyabayashi K, Tiriac H, Cleary CR, Maia-Silva D,
et al. TP63-mediated enhancer reprogramming drives the squamous subtype ofpancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. Cell Rep (2018) 25(7):1741 –55. e7. doi: 10.1016/
j.celrep.2018.10.051
75. Ryan DP, Hong TS, Bardeesy N. Pancreatic adenocarcinoma. N Engl J Med
(2014) 371(11):1039 –49. doi: 10.1056/NEJMra1404198
76. Conroy T, Desseigne F, Ychou M, Bouche ́O, Guimbaud R, Be ́couarn Y,
et al. FOLFIRINOX versus gemcitabine for metastatic pancreatic cancer. New Engl J
Med (2011) 364(19):1817 –25. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa101192377. Von Hoff DD, Ervin T, Arena FP, Chiorean EG, Infante J, Moore M, et al.
Increased survival in pancreatic cancer with nab-paclitaxel plus gemcitabine. N
Engl J Med (2013) 369(18):1691 –703. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa1304369
78. Conroy T, Hammel P, Hebbar M, Ben Abdelghani M, Wei AC, Raoul J-L,
et al. FOLFIRINOX or gemcitabine as adjuvant therapy for pancreatic cancer. N
Engl J Med (2018) 379(25):2395 –
406. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa1809775
79. Nielsen A, Scarlett CJ, Samra JS, Gill A, Li Y, Allen BJ, et al. Signi ﬁcant
overexpression of urokinase-type pl asminogen activator in pancreatic
adenocarcinoma using real-time quantitative reverse transcription polymerasechain reaction. J Gastroenterol Hepatol (2005) 20(2):256 –63. doi: 10.1111/j.1440-
1746.2004.03531.x
80. Cantero D, Friess H, De ﬂorin J, Zimmermann A, Bründler M, Riesle E, et al.
Enhanced expression of urokinase plasminogen activator and its receptor in
pancreatic carcinoma. Br J Cancer (1997) 75(3):388 –95. doi: 10.1038/bjc.1997.63
81. Feilchenfeldt J, Bründler M-A, Soravia C, Tötsch M, Meier CA. Peroxisome
proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) and associated transcription factors incolon cancer: reduced expression of PPAR g-coactivator 1 (PGC-1). Cancer Letters
(2004) 203(1):25 –33. doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2003.08.024
82. Zhang Y, Ba Y, Liu C, Sun G, Ding L, Gao S, et al. PGC-1 ainduces apoptosis
in human epithelial ovarian cancer cells through a PPAR g-dependent pathway. Cell
Res(2007) 17(4):363 –73. doi: 10.1038/cr.2007.11
83. Uddin MN, Li M, Wang X. Identi ﬁcation of transcriptional signatures of
colon tumor stroma by a meta-analysis. J Oncol (2019) 2019:8752862. doi: 10.1155/
2019/8752862
84. Uhle ́n M, Fagerberg L, Hallström BM, Lindskog C, Oksvold P, Mardinoglu
A, et al. Proteomics. tissue-based map of the human proteome. Science (2015) 347
(6220):1260419. doi: 10.1126/science.1260419
85. Thayer SP, di Magliano MP, Heiser PW, Nielsen CM, Roberts DJ, Lauwers
GY, et al. Hedgehog is an early and late mediator of pancreatic cancertumorigenesis. Nature (2003) 425(6960):851 –6. doi: 10.1038/nature02009
86. Li C, Heidt DG, Dalerba P, Burant CF, Zhang L, Adsay V, et al.
Identi ﬁcation of pancreatic cancer stem cells. Cancer Res (2007) 67(3):1030 –7.
doi:10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-06-2030
87. Lee CJ, Dosch J, Simeone DM. Pancreatic cancer stem cells. J Clin Oncol
(2008) 26(17):2806 –12. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2008.16.6702
88. Li W, Cao L, Chen X, Lei J, Ma Q. Resveratrol inhibits hypoxia-driven ROS-
induced invasive and migratory ability of pancreatic cancer cells viasuppression of
the hedgehog signaling pathway. Oncol Rep (2016) 35(3):1718 –26. doi: 10.3892/
or.2015.4504
89. Pude łko A, Wisowski G, Olczyk K, Koz ́ma EM. The dual role of the
glycosaminoglycan chondroitin-6-sulfate in the development, progression and
metastasis of cancer. FEBS J (2019) 286(10):1815 –37. doi: 10.1111/febs.14748
90. Ricciardelli C, Mayne K, Sykes PJ, Raymond WA, McCaul K, Marshall VR,
et al. Elevated stromal chondroitin sulfate glycosaminoglycan predicts progressionin early-stage prostate cancer. Clin Cancer Res (1997) 3(6):983 –92.
91. Huang Y-F, Mizumoto S, Fujita M. Novel insight into glycosaminoglycan
biosynthesis based on gene expression pro ﬁles.Front Cell Dev Biol (2021) 9. doi:
10.3389/fcell.2021.709018
92. Zhan T, Rindtorff N, Boutros M. Wnt signaling in cancer. Oncogene (2017)
36(11):1461 –73. doi: 10.1038/onc.2016.304
93. Zhang Y, Morris JP IV, Yan W, Scho ﬁeld HK, Gurney A, Simeone DM, et al.
Canonical wnt signaling is required for pancreatic carcinogenesis. Cancer Res
(2013) 73(15):4909 –22. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-12-4384
94. Sousa CM, Kimmelman AC. The complex landscape of pancreatic cancer
metabolism. Carcinogenesis (2014) 35(7):1441 –50. doi: 10.1093/carcin/bgu097
95. Yang J, Ren B, Yang G, Wang H, Chen G, You L, et al. The enhancement of
glycolysis regulates pancreatic cancer metastasis. Cell Mol Life Sci (2020) 77
(2):305 –21. doi: 10.1007/s00018-019-03278-z
96. Chang C-H, Qiu J, O ’Sullivan D, Buck MD, Noguchi T, Curtis JD, et al.
Metabolic competition in the tumor microenvironment is a driver of cancerprogression. Cell(2015) 162(6):1229 –41. doi: 10.1016/j.cell.2015.08.016
97. Wellenstein MD, de Visser KE. Cancer-cell-intrinsic mechanisms shaping
the tumor immune landscape. Immunity (2018) 48(3):399 –416. doi: 10.1016/
j.immuni.2018.03.004
98. Laurenzana A, Chillà A, Luciani C, Peppicelli S, Biagioni A, Bianchini F,
et al. uPA/uPAR system activation drives a glycolytic phenotype in melanoma cells.Int J Cancer (2017) 141(6):1190 –200. doi: 10.1002/ijc.30817
99. Kierans SJ, Taylor CT. Regulation of glycolysis by the hypoxia-inducible
factor (HIF): implications for cellular physiology. J Physiol (2021) 599(1):23 –37.
doi:10.1113/JP280572
100. Birtolo C, Pham H, Morvaridi S, Chheda C, Go VL, Ptasznik A, et al.
Cadherin-11 is a cell surface marker up-regulated in activated pancreatic stellatecells and is involved in pancreatic cancer cell migration. Am J Pathol (2017) 187
(1):146 –55. doi: 10.1016/j.ajpath.2016.09.012Hosen et al. 10.3389/ ﬁmmu.2022.1060957
Frontiers in Immunology frontiersin.org 24101. Ikenaga N, Ohuchida K, Mizumoto K, Cui L, Kayashima T, Morimatsu K,
et al. CD10+ pancreatic stellate cells enhance the progression of pancreatic cancer.Gastroenterology (2010) 139(3):1041 –51, 51.e1-8. doi: 10.1053/j.gastro.2010.05.084
102. Tang D, Yuan Z, Xue X, Lu Z, Zhang Y, Wang H, et al. High expression of
galectin-1 in pancreatic stellate ce lls plays a role in the development and
maintenance of an immunosuppressive microenvironment in pancreatic cancer.Int J Cancer (2012) 130(10):2337 –48. doi: 10.1002/ijc.26290
103. Qian D, Lu Z, Xu Q, Wu P, Tian L, Zhao L, et al. Galectin-1-driven
upregulation of SDF-1 in pancreatic stellate cells promotes pancreatic cancermetastasis. Cancer Letters (2017) 397:43 –51. doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2017.03.024
104. Orozco CA, Martinez-Bosch N, Guerrero PE, Vinaixa J, Dalotto-Moreno
T, Iglesias M, et al. Targeting galectin-1 inhibits pancreatic cancer progression by
modulating tumor-stroma crosstalk. Proc Natl Acad Sci United States America
(2018) 115(16):E3769 –78. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1722434115
105. Yoshida N, Masamune A, Hamada S, Kikuta K, Takikawa T, Motoi F, et al.
Kindlin-2 in pancreatic stellate cells promotes the progression of pancreatic cancer.Cancer Letters (2017) 390:103 –14. doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2017.01.008
106. Tian L, Lu ZP, Cai BB, Zhao LT, Qian D, Xu QC, et al. Activation of
pancreatic stellate cells involves an EMT-like process. Int J Oncol (2016) 48(2):783 –
92. doi: 10.3892/ijo.2015.3282
107. Lee H, Lim C, Lee J, Kim N, Bang S, Lee H, et al. TGF-beta signaling
preserves RECK expression in activated pancreatic stellate cells. J Cell Biochem
(2008) 104(3):1065 –74. doi: 10.1002/jcb.21692
108. Horiguchi K, Shirakihara T, Nakano A, Imamura T, Miyazono K, Saitoh
M. Role of ras signaling in the induction of snail by transforming growth factor-
beta. J Biol Chem (2009) 284(1):245 –53. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M804777200
109. Kanno A, Satoh K, Masamune A, Hirota M, Kimura K, Umino J, et al.
Periostin, secreted from stromal cells, has biphasic effect on cell migration andcorrelates with the epithelial to mesenchymal transition of human pancreaticcancer cells. Int J Cancer (2008) 122(12):2707 –18. doi: 10.1002/ijc.23332
1 1 0 .R u a nK ,B a oS ,O u y a n gG .T h em u l t i f a c e t e dr o l eo fp e r i o s t i ni n
tumorigenesis. Cell Mol Life Sci (2009) 66(14):2219 –30. doi: 10.1007/s00018-009-
0013-7
111. Kayed H, Jiang X, Keleg S, Jesnowski R, Giese T, Berger MR, et al.
Regulation and functional role of the runt-related transcription factor-2 in
pancreatic cancer. Br J Cancer (2007) 97(8):1106 –15. doi: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6603984
112. Mace TA, Bloomston M, Lesinski GB. Pancreatic cancer-associated stellate
cells. OncoImmunology (2013) 2(7):e24891. doi: 10.4161/onci.24891
113. Nagathihalli NS, Castellanos JA, VanSaun MN, Dai X, Ambrose M, Guo Q,
et al. Pancreatic stellate cell secreted IL-6 stimulates STAT3 dependent invasivenessof pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasia and cancer cells. Oncotarget (2016) 7
(40):65982 –92. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.11786
114. Tang D, Wang D, Yuan Z, Xue X, Zhang Y, An Y, et al. Persistent
activation of pancreatic stellate cells creates a microenvironment favorable for themalignant behavior of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. Int J Cancer (2013) 132
(5):993 –1003. doi: 10.1002/ijc.27715
115. Sada M, Ohuchida K, Horioka K, Okumura T, Moriyama T, Miyasaka Y,
et al. Hypoxic stellate cells of pancreatic cancer stroma regulate extracellular matrix
ﬁber organization and cancer cell motility. Cancer Letters (2016) 372(2):210 –8. doi:
10.1016/j.canlet.2016.01.016
116. Physico-mechanical aspec ts of extracellular matrix in ﬂuences on
tumorigenic behaviors. Semin Cancer Biol (2010) 20(3):139-45. doi: 10.1016/
j.semcancer.2010.04.004
117. Pickup MW, Mouw JK, Weaver VM. The extracellular matrix modulates
the hallmarks of cancer. EMBO Rep (2014) 15(12):1243 –53. doi: 10.15252/
embr.201439246
118. Oskarsson T, Acharyya S, Zhang XH, Vanharanta S, Tavazoie SF, Morris
PG, et al. Breast cancer cells produce tenascin c as a metastatic niche component tocolonize the lungs. Nat Med (2011) 17(7):867 –74. doi: 10.1038/nm.2379
119. Oskarsson T, Massague ́J. Extracellular matrix players in metastatic niches.
EMBO J (2012) 31(2):254 –6. doi: 10.1038/emboj.2011.469
120. Malanchi I, Santamaria-Mart ı ́nez A, Susanto E, Peng H, Lehr H-A,
Delaloye J-F, et al. Interactions between cancer stem cells and their niche governmetastatic colonization. Nature (2012) 481(7379):85 –9. doi: 10.1038/nature10694
121. Idichi T, Seki N, Kurahara H, Fukuhisa H, Toda H, Shimonosono M, et al.
Involvement of anti-tumor miR-124-3p and its targets in the pathogenesis ofpancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma: Direct regulation of ITGA3 and ITGB1 by miR-124-3p. Oncotarget (2018) 9(48):28849. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.25599
122. Deng M, Peng L, Li J, Liu X, Xia X, Li G. PPP1R14B is a prognostic and
immunological biomarker in pan-cancer. Front Genet (2021) 12:763561. doi:
10.3389/fgene.2021.763561
123. O ’Kane GM, Grünwald BT, Jang G-H, Masoomian M, Picardo S, Grant
RC, et al. GATA6 expression distinguishes classical and basal-like subtypes inadvanced pancreatic cancer. Clin Cancer Res (2020) 26(18):4901 –10. doi: 10.1158/
1078-0432.CCR-19-3724
124. Aguilera KY, Dawson DW. WNT ligand dependencies in pancreatic
cancer. Front Cell Dev Biol (2021) 9. doi: 10.3389/fcell.2021.671022
125. Khramtsov AI, Khramtsova GF, Tretiakova M, Huo D, Olopade OI, Goss
KH. Wnt/ b-catenin pathway activation is enriched in basal-like breast cancers and
predicts poor outcome. Am J Pathology (2010) 176(6):2911 –20. doi: 10.2353/
ajpath.2010.091125
126. Ellenrieder V, Hendler SF, Boeck W, Seufferlein T, Menke A, Ruhland C,
et al. Transforming growth factor b1 treatment leads to an epithelial-mesenchymal
transdifferentiation of pancreatic canc er cells requiring extracellular signal-
regulated kinase 2 activation. Cancer Res (2001) 61(10):4222 –8.
127. Brunton H, Caligiuri G, Cunningham R, Upstill-Goddard R, Bailey U-M,
Garner IM, et al. HNF4A and GATA6 loss reveals therapeutically actionable
subtypes in pancreatic cancer. Cell Rep (2020) 31(6):107625. doi: 10.1016/
j.celrep.2020.107625
128. Connor AA, Denroche RE, Jang GH, Lemire M, Zhang A, Chan-Seng-Yue
M, et al. Integration of genomic and transcriptional features in pancreatic cancerreveals increased cell cycle progression in metastases. Cancer Cell (2019) 35(2):267 –
82. e7. doi: 10.1016/j.ccell.2018.12.010
129. Maurer C, Holmstrom SR, He J, Laise P, Su T, Ahmed A, et al.
Experimental microdissection enables functional harmonisation of pancreaticcancer subtypes. Gut(2019) 68(6):1034 –43. doi: 10.1136/gutjnl-2018-317706
130. Wu C-Z, Chu YC, Lai S-W, Hsieh M-S, Yadav VK, Fong I-H, et al.
Urokinase plasminogen activator induces epithelial-mesenchymal and metastasis
of pancreatic cancer through plasmin/MMP14/TGF- baxis, which is inhibited by 4-
acetyl-antroquinonol b treatment. Phytomedicine (2022) 100:154062. doi: 10.1016/
j.phymed.2022.154062
131. Ossowski L, Russo-Payne H, Wilson EL. Inhibition of urokinase-type
plasminogen activator by antibodies: the effect on dissemination of a human tumorin the nude mouse. Cancer Res (1991) 51(1):274 –81.
132. Towle MJ, Lee A, Maduakor EC, Schwartz CE, Bridges AJ, Little ﬁeld BA.
Inhibition of urokinase by 4-substituted benzo [b] thiophene-2-carboxamidines:An important new class of selective synthetic urokinase inhibitor. Cancer Res
(1993) 53(11):2553 –9.
133. Rabbani S, Harakidas P, Davidson DJ, Henkin J, Mazar AP. Prevention of
prostate-cancer metastasis in vivo by a novel synthetic inhibitor of urokinase-type
plasminogen activator (uPA). Int J Cancer (1995) 63(6):840 –5. doi: 10.1002/
ijc.2910630615
134. Xing RH, Mazar A, Henkin J, Rabbani SA. Prevention of breast cancer
growth, invasion, and metastasis by a ntiestrogen tamoxifen alone or in
combination with urokinase inhibitor b-428. Cancer Res (1997) 57(16):3585 –93.
135. Vine K L, Indira Chandran V M, Locke J, Matesic L, Lee J, Skropeta D, et al.
Targeting urokinase and the tr ansferrin receptor with novel, anti-mitotic n-alkylisatin
cytotoxin conjugates causes selective ca ncer cell death and reduces tumor growth. Curr
Cancer Drug Targets (2012) 12(1):64 –73. doi: 10.2174/156800912798888983
136. Meyer JE, Brocks C, Graefe H, Mala C, Thäns N, Bürgle M, et al. The oral
serine protease inhibitor WX-671 –ﬁrst experience in patients with advanced head
and neck carcinoma. Breast Care (2008) 3(Suppl 2):20. doi: 10.1159/000151736
137. Goldstein LJ. Experience in phase I trials and an upcoming phase II study
with uPA inhibitors in metastatic breast cancer. Breast Care (2008) 3(Suppl 2):25.
doi:10.1159/000151733
138. Schmitt M, Harbeck N, Brünner N, Jänicke F, Meisner C, Mühlenweg B,
et al. Cancer therapy trials employing level-of-evidence-1 disease forecast cancerbiomarkers uPA and its inhibitor PAI-1. Expert Rev Mol Diagnostics (2011) 11
(6):617 –34. doi: 10.1586/erm.11.47
139. Heinemann V, Ebert MP, Laubender RP, Bevan P, Mala C, Boeck S. Phase
II randomised proof-of-concept study of the urokinase inhibitor upamostat (WX-671) in combination with gemcitabine compared with gemcitabine alone inpatients with non-resectable, locally advanced pancreatic cancer. Br J Cancer
(2013) 108(4):766 –
70. doi: 10.1038/bjc.2013.62
140. Banys-Paluchowski M, Witzel I, Aktas B, Fasching PA, Hartkopf A, Janni
W, et al. The prognostic relevance of urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA)in the blood of patients with metastatic breast cancer. Sci Rep (2019) 9(1):2318. doi:
10.1038/s41598-018-37259-2
141. Mekapogu AR, Xu Z, Pothula SP, Perera C, Pang T, Hosen S, et al eds.
Hepatocyte growth factor/c-met pathway inhibition combined chemotherapy
improves tumor immunity and eliminates metastasis in pancreatic cancer .
MARKET ST, PHILADELPHIA: LIPPINCOTT WILLIAMS & WILKINS TWOCOMMERCE SQ (2001). PANCREAS; 2021.
142. Yang J, Zhang Q, Wang J, Lou Y, Hong Z, Wei S, et al. Dynamic pro ﬁling of
immune microenvironment during pancreatic cancer development suggests earlyintervention and combination strategy of immunotherapy. EBioMedicine (2022)
78:103958. doi: 10.1016/j.ebiom.2022.103958Hosen et al. 10.3389/ ﬁmmu.2022.1060957
Frontiers in Immunology frontiersin.org 25143. Thyagarajan A, Alshehri MSA, Miller KL, Sherwin CM, Travers JB, Sahu
RP. Myeloid-derived suppressor cells and pancreatic cancer: Implications in noveltherapeutic approaches. Cancers (Basel) (2019) 11(11):1627. doi: 10.3390/
cancers11111627Hosen et al. 10.3389/ ﬁmmu.2022.1060957
Frontiers in Immunology frontiersin.org 26Glossary
TCGA The Cancer Genome Atlas
ICGC International Cancer Genome Consortium
OICR Ontario Institute for Cancer ResearchCPTAC Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis ConsortiumCCLE Cancer CellLine EncyclopediaGEPIA Gene Expression Pro ﬁling Interactive Analysis
ACC adrenocortical carcinoma
BLCA bladder urothelial carcinoma
BRCA breast invasive carcinomaCESC Cervical squamous cell carcinoma and endocervical
adenocarcinoma
CHOL Cholangiocarcinoma
COAD colon adenocarcinoma
DLBC lymphoid neoplasm diffuse large B-cell lymphomaESCA esophageal carcinomaGBM glioblastoma multiformeHNSC head and neck squamous cell carcinomaKICH Kidney chromophobe
KIRC kidney renal clear cell carcinoma
KIRP kidney renal papillary cell carcinomaLAML acute myeloid leukemiaLGG brain lower grade gliomaLIHC Liver hepatocellular carcinomaLUAD lung adenocarcinoma
LUSC lung squamous cell carcinoma
MESO MesotheliomaOV ovarian serous cystadenocarcinomaPAAD Pancreatic adenocarcinomaPCPG Pheochromocytoma and ParagangliomaPRAD prostate adenocarcinoma
READ rectum adenocarcinoma
SARC SarcomaSKCM Skin cutaneous melanomaSTAD stomach adenocarcinomaTGCT testicular germ cell tumorsTHCA thyroid carcinomaTHYM thymoma
UCEC uterine corpus endometrial carcinoma
UCS uterine carcinosarcomaUVM Uveal MelanomaHEG High Expression GroupLEG Low Expression GroupFDR false discovery rate
HIF1A Hypoxia inducible factor 1 subunit alpha
HLAs human leukocyte antigensIFN interferonMDSCs myeloid-derived suppressor cellsNK natural killer
(Continued)Continued
OS overall survival
PD-1 Programmed cell death protein 1PDL1 programmed death-ligand 1PFI progression-free intervalSGSs stromal gene signatures
ssGSEA single-sample gene-set enrichment analysis
TILs tumor-in ﬁltrating lymphocytes
OG OncogenesTF Transcription factorsCK and
GFCytokines and Growth factors
TCG Translocating cancer genes
CDM Cell Differential markersPK Protein KinaseHP Homeodomain ProteinTS Tumour Suppressor
EA Endothelial
STM StemnessHYPOX HypoxiaCP Cell ProliferationECMD ECM degradationECM Extracellular Matrix
EMT Epithelial mesenchymal transition
MTGs Metastasis-related genes/Metastasis-promoting genesCtrl ControlG Gemcitabine
uPA inhibitor (BB2-30F) at 3mg (U3) and 10 mg (U10)
PSCs Pancreatic stellate cells
PC Pancreatic cancer
CAhPSCs Cancer associated human pancreatic stellate cells
Hosen et al. 10.3389/ ﬁmmu.2022.1060957
Frontiers in Immunology frontiersin.org 27