1. Cancer Res Commun. 2022 Oct 21;2(10):1244-1254. doi: 
10.1158/2767-9764.CRC-22-0119. eCollection 2022 Oct.

Drug-gene Interaction Screens Coupled to Tumor Data Analyses Identify the Most 
Clinically Relevant Cancer Vulnerabilities Driving Sensitivity to PARP 
Inhibition.

Jamal K(#)(1), Galbiati A(#)(1), Armenia J(#)(2), Illuzzi G(1), Hall J(1), 
Bentouati S(1), Barrell D(2), Ahdesmäki M(2); Functional Genomics Centre Group; 
O'Connor MJ(1), Leo E(1), Forment JV(1).

Author information:
(1)DDR Biology, Bioscience, AstraZeneca, Cambridge, United Kingdom.
(2)Early Computational Oncology, Oncology R&D, AstraZeneca, Cambridge, United 
Kingdom.
(#)Contributed equally

PARP inhibitors (PARPi) are currently indicated for the treatment of ovarian, 
breast, pancreatic, and prostate cancers harboring mutations in the tumor 
suppressor genes BRCA1 or BRCA2. In the case of ovarian and prostate cancers, 
their classification as homologous recombination repair (HRR) deficient (HRD) or 
mutated also makes PARPi an available treatment option beyond BRCA1 or BRCA2 
mutational status. However, identification of the most relevant genetic 
alterations driving the HRD phenotype has proven difficult and recent data have 
shown that other genetic alterations not affecting HRR are also capable of 
driving PARPi responses. To gain insight into the genetics driving PARPi 
sensitivity, we performed CRISPR-Cas9 loss-of-function screens in six 
PARPi-insensitive cell lines and combined the output with published PARPi 
datasets from eight additional cell lines. Ensuing exploration of the data 
identified 110 genes whose inactivation is strongly linked to sensitivity to 
PARPi. Parallel cell line generation of isogenic gene knockouts in ovarian and 
prostate cancer cell lines identified that inactivation of core HRR factors is 
required for driving in vitro PARPi responses comparable with the ones observed 
for BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutations. Moreover, pan-cancer genetic, transcriptomic, and 
epigenetic data analyses of these 110 genes highlight the ones most frequently 
inactivated in tumors, making this study a valuable resource for prospective 
identification of potential PARPi-responsive patient populations. Importantly, 
our investigations uncover XRCC3 gene silencing as a potential new prognostic 
biomarker of PARPi sensitivity in prostate cancer.
SIGNIFICANCE: This study identifies tumor genetic backgrounds where to expand 
the use of PARPis beyond mutations in BRCA1 or BRCA2. This is achieved by 
combining the output of unbiased genome-wide loss-of-function CRISPR-Cas9 
genetic screens with bioinformatics analysis of biallelic losses of the 
identified genes in public tumor datasets, unveiling loss of the DNA repair gene 
XRCC3 as a potential biomarker of PARPi sensitivity in prostate cancer.

© 2022 The Authors; Published by the American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/2767-9764.CRC-22-0119
PMCID: PMC10035383
PMID: 36969741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: K. Jamal is an AstraZeneca employee and holds 
stocks and shares in the company. A. Galbiati reports personal fees from 
AstraZeneca during the conduct of the study; other support from AstraZeneca 
outside the submitted work. S. Bentouati reports personal fees from AstraZeneca 
during the conduct of the study; other support from AstraZeneca outside the 
submitted work. D. Barrell is full-time employee and shareholder of AstraZeneca. 
M. Ahdesmäki is an employee of and shareholder in AstraZeneca. M.J. O'Connor is 
a full-time employee and shareholder at AstraZeneca. J.V. Forment reports 
personal fees from AstraZeneca during the conduct of the study; other support 
from AstraZeneca outside the submitted work. No disclosures were reported by the 
other authors.