1. Zhonghua Nan Ke Xue. 2022 Nov;28(11):1026-1030.

[Extragonadal germ cell tumor: A case report and review of the literature].

[Article in Chinese]

Li P(1), Wu D(1), Xu XF(1), Fu D(1), Jia RP(2), Ge JP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Jinling Hospital Affiliated to Nanjing Medical 
University / General Hospital of Eastern Theater Command, Nanjing, Jiangsu 
210002, China.
(2)Department of Urology, Nanjing First Hospital of Nanjing Medical University, 
Nanjing, Jiangsu 210006, China.

OBJECTIVE: To discuss the clinical diagnosis and treatment of extragonadal germ 
cell tumor.
METHODS: We analyzed the clinical data on a case of extragonadal germ cell tumor 
diagnosed and treated in the General Hospital of Eastern Theater Command and 
reviewed the relevant literature.
RESULTS: The patient was initially diagnosed with retroperitoneal tumor and 
treated by resection of the tumor together with the left kidney due to the large 
volume of the tumor, which was complicated by pancreatic injury. Postoperative 
pathology showed it to be extragonadal germ cell malignancy. Postoperative 
examination revealed space-occupying lesion in the left testis, with serum alpha 
fetoprotein (AFP), human chorionicgonadotropin (hCG) and lactate dehydrogenase 
(LDH) negative, followed by stage-two resection of the left testis, which was 
pathologically shown with testicular seminoma. The patient received 7 courses of 
cisplatin, etoposide bleomycin (PEB) regimen and was followed up for 8 years, 
which found no recurrence or metastasis, and the patient fathered no child 
during the postoperative follow-up.
CONCLUSION: For patients with a history of cryptorchidism and tumors located in 
the central axis, special attention should be paid to physical examination of 
the testes, testicular ultrasonography, and determination of AFP and other 
indicators to identify gonadal tumor metastasis. And if so, radiotherapy and 
chemotherapy can be considered first to reduce surgical complications and 
achieve accurate management.

PMID: 37846120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]