1. Pancreas. 2022 Oct 1;51(9):1061-1073. doi: 10.1097/MPA.0000000000002170.

Integrated Physiology of the Exocrine and Endocrine Compartments in Pancreatic 
Diseases: Workshop Proceedings.

Mastracci TL(1), Apte M(2), Amundadottir LT(3), Alvarsson A(4), Artandi S(5), 
Bellin MD(6), Bernal-Mizrachi E(7), Caicedo A(8), Campbell-Thompson M(9), 
Cruz-Monserrate Z(10), El Ouaamari A(11), Gaulton KJ(12), Geisz A(13), Goodarzi 
MO(14), Hara M(15), Hull-Meichle RL(16), Kleger A(17), Klein AP(18), Kopp 
JL(19), Kulkarni RN(20), Muzumdar MD(21), Naren AP(22), Oakes SA(23), Olesen 
SS(24), Phelps EA(25), Powers AC(26), Stabler CL(25), Tirkes T(27), Whitcomb 
DC(28), Yadav D(28), Yong J(29), Zaghloul NA(30), Sander M(31), Pandol SJ(32).

Author information:
(1)From the ∗Department of Biology, Indiana University-Purdue University 
Indianapolis.
(2)Faculty of Medicine and Health, University of New South Wales, Sydney, 
Australia.
(3)National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health, Rockville, MD.
(4)Diabetes, Obesity and Metabolism Institute, Mount Sinai Hospital, New York, 
NY.
(5)Department of Internal Medicine, Stanford University, California.
(6)Departments of Pediatrics and Surgery, University of Minnesota Medical 
School, Minneapolis.
(7)Department of Medicine, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine and 
Miami VA Health Care System, Florida.
(8)Department of Medicine, University of Miami, Florida.
(9)Department of Pathology, Immunology & Laboratory Medicine, University of 
Florida, Gainesville.
(10)Department of Internal Medicine, The Ohio State University Wexner Medical 
Center, Columbus.
(11)Department of Medicine, Rutgers The State University of New Jersey, New 
Brunswick.
(12)Department of Pediatrics, University of California San Diego, La Jolla.
(13)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, Boston University Henry M. Goldman 
School of Dental Medicine, Massachusetts.
(14)Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, Cedars-Sinai Medical 
Center, Los Angeles, California.
(15)Department of Medicine, The University of Chicago, Illinois.
(16)Department of Medicine, VA Puget Sound Health Care System and University of 
Washington, Seattle.
(17)Institute of Molecular Oncology and Stem Cell Biology, Ulm University, Ulm, 
Germany.
(18)Department of Pathology and Medicine, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD.
(19)Department of Cellular & Physiological Sciences, University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.
(20)Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA.
(21)Departments of Genetics and Internal Medicine (Oncology), Yale University 
School of Medicine, New Haven, CT.
(22)Department of Medicine, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA.
(23)Department of Pathology, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL.
(24)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Aalborg University Hospital, 
Aalborg, Denmark.
(25)J. Crayton Pruitt Family Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of 
Florida, Gainesville.
(26)Division of Diabetes, Endocrinology, and Metabolism, Vanderbilt University 
Medical Center and VA Tennessee Valley Healthcare System, Nashville.
(27)Department of Radiology and Imaging Sciences, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Indianapolis.
(28)Department of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
(29)Degenerative Diseases Program, SBP Medical Discovery Institute, La Jolla, 
CA.
(30)National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National 
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD.
(31)Department of Pediatrics and Department of Cellular & Molecular Medicine, 
University of California San Diego, La Jolla.
(32)Division of Gastroenterology, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA.

The "Integrated Physiology of the Exocrine and Endocrine Compartments in 
Pancreatic Diseases" Workshop was a 1.5-day scientific conference at the 
National Institutes of Health (Bethesda, MD) that engaged clinical and basic 
science investigators interested in diseases of the pancreas. This report 
summarizes the workshop proceedings. The goal of the workshop was to forge 
connections and identify gaps in knowledge that could guide future research 
directions. Presentations were segregated into 6 major themes, including (a) 
Pancreas Anatomy and Physiology; (b) Diabetes in the Setting of Exocrine 
Disease; (c) Metabolic Influences on the Exocrine Pancreas; (d) Genetic Drivers 
of Pancreatic Diseases; (e) Tools for Integrated Pancreatic Analysis; and (f) 
Implications of Exocrine-Endocrine Crosstalk. For each theme, there were 
multiple presentations followed by panel discussions on specific topics relevant 
to each area of research; these are summarized herein. Significantly, the 
discussions resulted in the identification of research gaps and opportunities 
for the field to address. In general, it was concluded that as a pancreas 
research community, we must more thoughtfully integrate our current knowledge of 
the normal physiology as well as the disease mechanisms that underlie endocrine 
and exocrine disorders so that there is a better understanding of the interplay 
between these compartments.

Copyright © 2023 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/MPA.0000000000002170
PMCID: PMC10328394
PMID: 37078927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: M.D.B. has received 
research funding from Viacyte and Dexcom and serves on advisory boards/DSMB 
membership for Insulet, Vertex, and Ariel Precision Medicine. M.O.G. has served 
on an advisory board for Nestle Health Science. K.J.G. is a consultant for 
Genentech and a stockholder of Neurocrine Biosciences. S.A.O. is a cofounder and 
consultant at OptiKira, LLC (Cleveland, Ohio). All other authors declare no 
conflict of interest.