1. Turk J Biol. 2022 Sep 19;46(6):439-457. doi: 10.55730/1300-0152.2630. 
eCollection 2022.

Gemcitabine in combination with epibrassinolide enhanced the apoptotic response 
in an ER stress-dependent manner and reduced the epithelial-mesenchymal 
transition in pancreatic cancer cells.

Obakan Yerlikaya P(1)(2), Mehdizadehtapeh L(3), Rencüzoğullari Ö(4), Kuryayeva 
F(4), Çevikli SS(4), Özağar Ş(4), Odabaş SP(4), Tunçkol S(4), Yetim H(4), Çoker 
Gürkan A(5), Arisan ED(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Faculty of Engineering and 
Natural Sciences, İstanbul Medeniyet University, İstanbul, Turkey.
(2)Science and Advanced Technology Research Center, İstanbul Medeniyet 
University, İstanbul, Turkey.
(3)Department of Food and Nutrition, İstanbul Sabahattin Zaim University, 
İstanbul, Turkey.
(4)Department of Molecular Biology Genetics, İstanbul Kültür University, 
İstanbul, Turkey.
(5)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science and Literature, Marmara University, 
İstanbul, Turkey.
(6)Institute of Biotechnology, Gebze Technical University, Kocaeli, Turkey.

Gemcitabine is a broad-spectrum antimetabolite and a deoxycytidine analog 
recognized as a standard therapy alone or in combination with other 
antineoplastic agents in the therapy of pancreas cancer. Drug resistance 
following gemcitabine treatment is a common phenomenon; therefore, combinational 
therapy models are usually preferred. Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, or 
pancreas cancer, is the fourth leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide. 
With the increasing incidence of pancreatic cancer every year, the mortality 
rate is also rising significantly because of late diagnosis, and limited 
chemotherapy options. Adjuvant chemotherapy after surgical resection is the 
typical option for the treatment of early pancreatic cancer. Mostly, 
5-fluorouracil/leucovorin with irinotecan and oxaliplatin (FOLFIRINOX) and 
gemcitabine/nab-paclitaxel is used for the prognosis of advanced pancreatic 
cancer; however, chemoresistance usually occurs limiting the effectiveness of 
the chemotherapy. Therefore, most of the studies are focused on gemcitabine 
combination with other drugs to overcome the situation. As an apoptotic agent 
and a member of brassinosteroids, epibrassinolide (EBR) induces endoplasmic 
reticulum (ER) stress-dependent cell death in different cancer cells, as shown 
by our group. In this study, we aimed to enhance the gemcitabine apoptotic 
effect by EBR combined treatment in pancreatic cancer cells. EBR treatment 
reduced cell viability and inhibited cell proliferation in PANC-1, MIA PaCa-2, 
and AsPC-1 cells. Each pancreatic cancer cell gave different responses to the 
EBR treatment because of different aggressiveness. However, EBR induced 
apoptosis through increasing ROS generation, which was associated with ER stress 
in PANC-1 and MIA PaCa-2 cells. Gemcitabine alone reduced the cell viability of 
each pancreatic cancer cell line; however, combination with EBR led to further 
induction of apoptotic cell death in each pancreatic cancer cell line. In 
addition, combined treatment of gemcitabine and EBR further decreased N-cadherin 
and vimentin expressions, suggesting that epithelial-mesenchymal transition of 
pancreatic cells is reduced. In conclusion, EBR had therapeutic potential to 
avoid the gemcitabine-induced side effects during the treatment of pancreatic 
cancer.

© TÜBİTAK.

DOI: 10.55730/1300-0152.2630
PMCID: PMC10387961
PMID: 37529796

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest The authors declare no 
conflicts of interest.