1. Cancer Res Commun. 2022 Nov 2;2(11):1326-1333. doi: 
10.1158/2767-9764.CRC-22-0072. eCollection 2022 Nov.

A Preclinical and Phase Ib Study of Palbociclib plus Nab-Paclitaxel in Patients 
with Metastatic Adenocarcinoma of the Pancreas.

Hidalgo M(1), Garcia-Carbonero R(2), Lim KH(3), Messersmith WA(4), 
Garrido-Laguna I(5), Borazanci E(6), Lowy AM(7), Medina Rodriguez L(8), Laheru 
D(9), Salvador-Barbero B(10), Malumbres M(11), Shields DJ(12), Grossman JE(13), 
Huang X(14), Tammaro M(14), Martini JF(14), Yu Y(14), Kern K(14), Macarulla 
T(15).

Author information:
(1)Hematology and Medical Oncology, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, New York.
(2)Oncology Department, Hospital Universitario 12 de Octubre, Imas12, UCM, CNIO, 
CIBERONC, Madrid, Spain.
(3)Department of Medicine, Division of Oncology, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri.
(4)School of Medicine, University of Colorado Cancer Center, Aurora, Colorado.
(5)Department of Oncology, Huntsman Cancer Institute, University of Utah, Salt 
Lake City, Utah.
(6)HonorHealth/TGen, Scottsdale, Arizona.
(7)Department of Surgery, UC San Diego Moores Cancer Center, San Diego, 
California.
(8)Hospital Universitario de Fuenlabrada, Fuenlabrada, Madrid, Spain.
(9)Department of Oncology, The Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center at 
Johns Hopkins, Baltimore, Maryland.
(10)School of Biosciences, European Cancer Stem Cell Research Institute, Cardiff 
University, Cardiff, United Kingdom.
(11)Cell Division and Cancer Group, Spanish National Cancer Research Centre 
(CNIO), Madrid, Spain.
(12)Centers for Therapeutic Innovation, Pfizer Inc, New York, New York.
(13)Department of Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.
(14)Pfizer Oncology, San Diego, California.
(15)Gastrointestinal Cancer Unit, Vall d´Hebrón University Hospital and Vall 
d´Hebrón Institute of Oncology (VHIO), IOB Quirón, Barcelona, Spain.

PURPOSE: To assess the preclinical efficacy, clinical safety and efficacy, and 
MTD of palbociclib plus nab-paclitaxel in patients with advanced pancreatic 
ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC).
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Preclinical activity was tested in patient-derived 
xenograft (PDX) models of PDAC. In the open-label, phase I clinical study, the 
dose-escalation cohort received oral palbociclib initially at 75 mg/day (range, 
50‒125 mg/day; modified 3+3 design; 3/1 schedule); intravenous nab-paclitaxel 
was administered weekly for 3 weeks/28-day cycle at 100‒125 mg/m2. The modified 
dose-regimen cohorts received palbociclib 75 mg/day (3/1 schedule or 
continuously) plus nab-paclitaxel (biweekly 125 or 100 mg/m2, respectively). The 
prespecified efficacy threshold was 12-month survival probability of ≥65% at the 
MTD.
RESULTS: Palbociclib plus nab-paclitaxel was more effective than gemcitabine 
plus nab-paclitaxel in three of four PDX models tested; the combination was not 
inferior to paclitaxel plus gemcitabine. In the clinical trial, 76 patients (80% 
received prior treatment for advanced disease) were enrolled. Four dose-limiting 
toxicities were observed [mucositis (n = 1), neutropenia (n = 2), febrile 
neutropenia (n = 1)]. The MTD was palbociclib 100 mg for 21 of every 28 days and 
nab-paclitaxel 125 mg/m2 weekly for 3 weeks in a 28-day cycle. Among all 
patients, the most common all-causality any-grade adverse events were 
neutropenia (76.3%), asthenia/fatigue (52.6%), nausea (42.1%), and anemia 
(40.8%). At the MTD (n = 27), the 12-month survival probability was 50% (95% 
confidence interval, 29.9-67.2).
CONCLUSIONS: This study showed the tolerability and antitumor activity of 
palbociclib plus nab-paclitaxel treatment in patients with PDAC; however, the 
prespecified efficacy threshold was not met.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Pfizer Inc (NCT02501902).
SIGNIFICANCE: In this article, the combination of palbociclib, a CDK4/6 
inhibitor, and nab-paclitaxel in advanced pancreatic cancer evaluates an 
important drug combination using translational science. In addition, the work 
presented combines preclinical and clinical data along with pharmacokinetic and 
pharmacodynamic assessments to find alternative treatments for this patient 
population.

© 2022 The Authors; Published by the American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/2767-9764.CRC-22-0072
PMCID: PMC10035387
PMID: 36970055 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: M. Hidalgo reports grants from Pfizer during the 
conduct of the study; personal fees and other from BMS, InxMed, Champions; 
personal fees from MinKi, Velavigo, Oncomatrix; other from Nelum outside the 
submitted work; and M. Hidalgo is an independant director in BMS. R. 
Garcia-Carbonero reports personal fees from AAA, Advanz Pharma, Amgen, Bayer, 
BMS, HMP, Ipsen, Merck, Midatech, MSD, Novartis, Pharma Mar, Pierre Fabre, 
Servier and grants from BMS, MSD, Pfizer outside the submitted work. W.A. 
Messersmith reports other from Pfizer during the conduct of the study. I. 
Garrido-Laguna reports personal fees from SOTIO, Kanaph, Jazz, OncXer; grants 
from Novartis (to institution), Bayer (to institution), Bristol Myers-Squibb (to 
institution), Pfizer (to institution), MedImmune (to institution), Lilly (to 
institution), Incyte (to institution), GlaxoSmithKline (to institution), Tolero 
Pharmaceuticals (to institution), BridgeBio Pharma (to institution), Jacobio (to 
institution), Repare Therapeutics (to institution), and Sumitomo Dainippon 
Pharma Oncology (to institution) outside the submitted work. E. Borazanci 
reports other from Pfizer during the conduct of the study; other from BMS, 
Minneamrita Therapeutics, Merck, Helix Biopharma, and Biontech outside the 
submitted work; and reports consultancy with Vivacitus (self), TD2 (self), and 
Nanology (self). M. Malumbres reports grants and personal fees from Pfizer and 
grants from Eli Lilly outside the submitted work. D.J. Shields is an employee of 
Pfizer Inc. and holds shares in the company. J.E. Grossman reports other from 
Agenus outside the submitted work. X. Huang reports personal fees from Pfizer, 
Inc outside the submitted work. J.-F. Martini reports personal fees from Pfizer 
Inc and other from Pfizer Inc outside the submitted work. Y. Yu reports other 
from Pfizer Inc. outside the submitted work. K. Kern reports other from Pfizer 
Inc outside the submitted work. T. Macarulla reports personal fees from Ability 
Pharmaceuticals SL, Amgen, Aptitude Health, Basilea Pharma, Baxter, BioLineRX 
Ltd, Celgene, Eisai, Ellipses, Genzyme, Hirslanden/GITZ, Imedex, Ipsen 
Bioscience, Inc, Janssen, Lilly, Marketing Farmacéutico & Investigación Clínica, 
S.L, MDS, Medscape, Novocure, Paraxel, PPD Development, Polaris, QED 
Therapeutics, Roche Farma, Scilink Comunicación Científica SC, Surface Oncology, 
and Zymeworks; personal fees and other from AstraZeneca, Incyte, Sanofi-Aventis, 
Servier outside the submitted work. No disclosures were reported by the other 
authors.