1. Hepatobiliary Pancreat Dis Int. 2023 Feb;22(1):7-13. doi: 
10.1016/j.hbpd.2022.10.006. Epub 2022 Oct 20.

Conversion therapy in liver transplantation for hepatocellular carcinoma: What's 
new in the era of molecular and immune therapy?

Jiang C(1), Sun XD(1), Qiu W(1), Chen YG(1), Sun DW(1), Lv GY(2).

Author information:
(1)General Surgery Center, Department of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery, 
the First Hospital of Jilin University, Changchun 130021, China.
(2)General Surgery Center, Department of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery, 
the First Hospital of Jilin University, Changchun 130021, China. Electronic 
address: lvgy@jlu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the sixth most common cancer 
globally, with limited therapies and unsatisfactory prognosis once in the 
advanced stages. With promising advances in locoregional and systematic 
treatments, fast development of targeted drugs, the success of immunotherapy, as 
well as the emergence of the therapeutic alliance, conversion therapy has 
recently become more well developed and an effective therapeutic strategy. This 
article aimed to review recent developments in conversion therapy in liver 
transplantation (LT) for HCC.
DATA SOURCES: We searched for relevant publications on PubMed before September 
2022, using the terms "HCC", "liver transplantation", "downstaging", "bridging 
treatment" and "conversion therapy."
RESULTS: Conversion therapy was frequently represented as a combination of 
multiple treatment modalities to downstage HCC and make patients eligible for 
LT. Although combining various local and systematic treatments in conversion 
therapy is still controversial, growing evidence has suggested that multimodal 
combined treatment strategies downstage HCC in a shorter time, which ultimately 
increases the opportunities for LT. Moreover, the recent breakthrough of 
immunotherapy and targeted therapy for HCC also benefit patients with 
advanced-stage tumors.
CONCLUSIONS: In the era of targeted therapy and immunotherapy, applying the 
thinking of transplant oncology to benefit HCC patients receiving LT is a new 
topic that has shed light on advanced-stage patients. With the expansion of 
conversion therapy concepts, further investigation and research is required to 
realize the full potential of conversion treatment strategies, including 
accurately selecting candidates, determining the timing of surgery, improving 
the conversion rate, and guaranteeing the safety and long-term efficacy of 
treatment.

Copyright © 2022 First Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University School of 
Medicine in China. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.hbpd.2022.10.006
PMID: 36825482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]