1. JCEM Case Rep. 2022 Nov 30;1(1):luac015. doi: 10.1210/jcemcr/luac015. 
eCollection 2023 Jan.

Insulinoma Presenting With Postprandial Hypoglycemia in a Pregnant Woman With 
MEN-1.

Wood AJ(1)(2), Kasireddy V(1), Chitturi S(1)(3), Walsh JP(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Royal Darwin Hospital, Casuarina, Northern 
Territory 0810, Australia.
(2)Menzies School of Health Research , Charles Darwin University, Casuarina, 
Northern Territory, Australia.
(3)School of Medicine, Flinders University, Northern Territory Medical Program, 
Tiwi, Northern Territory, Australia.
(4)Department of Endocrinology and Diabetes, Sir Charles Gairdner Hospital, 
Nedlands, Australia.
(5)Medical School, University of Western Australia, Crawley, Australia.

Insulinomas are rare insulin-secreting tumors of pancreatic origin that cause 
hypoglycemia and can be associated with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 
(MEN1). While rare, they are the most common cause of hypoglycemia related to 
endogenous hyperinsulinism. A 28-year-old woman with known MEN1 presented with 
postprandial hypoglycemia in the second trimester of pregnancy. Prior to her 
presentation she was known to have several pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors that 
had been stable on serial imaging, but no history of hypoglycemia. She was 
managed with dietary intervention during pregnancy and gave birth to a healthy 
baby at 37 weeks' gestation. After pregnancy, hypoglycemia initially resolved, 
but then recurred at 8 months post partum. Magnetic resonance imaging showed 
several pancreatic neoplasms with the largest lesion measuring 29 mm in the 
pancreatic tail, unchanged from previous imaging. After localization with a 
selective arterial calcium stimulation test, the patient underwent successful 
distal pancreatectomy with resolution of symptoms. This case is unusual in that 
her initial presentation was during pregnancy, she had predominantly 
postprandial rather than fasting hypoglycemia, and her symptoms remitted for 
several months after delivery. Key learning points are to have a low index of 
suspicion for an insulinoma when there is a history of MEN1 and the need for a 
pragmatic approach to diagnosis and treatment during pregnancy.

© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Endocrine Society.

DOI: 10.1210/jcemcr/luac015
PMCID: PMC10578399
PMID: 37908256