1. Liver Cancer. 2022 Aug 25;12(1):44-56. doi: 10.1159/000525499. eCollection
2023  Feb.

Hepatic Events and Viral Kinetics in Hepatocellular Carcinoma Patients Treated 
with Atezolizumab plus Bevacizumab.

Hsu C(1)(2)(3), Ducreux M(4), Zhu AX(5)(6), Qin S(7), Ikeda M(8), Kim TY(9), 
Galle PR(10), Finn RS(11), Chen E(12), Ma N(13), Hu Y(14), Li L(15), Cheng 
AL(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Graduate Institute of Oncology, National Taiwan University College of 
Medicine, Taipei, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Medical Oncology, National Taiwan University Cancer Center, 
Taipei, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Oncology, National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Medical Oncology, Gustave Roussy Cancer Center, Paris-Saclay 
University, Villejuif, France.
(5)Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.
(6)Jiahui International Cancer Center, Jiahui Health, Shanghai, China.
(7)Department of Medical Oncology, Jinling Hospital Cancer Center, Nanjing, 
China.
(8)Department of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Oncology, National Cancer Center 
Hospital East, Kashiwa, Japan.
(9)Department of Internal Medicine, Seoul National University College of 
Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(10)Department of Internal Medicine, University Medical Center Mainz, Mainz, 
Germany.
(11)Division of Hematology Oncology, Department of Medicine, University of 
California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California, USA.
(12)Product Development Safety, Roche (China) Holding Ltd, Shanghai, China.
(13)Product Development Safety, Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco, 
California, USA.
(14)Biostatistics, F. Hoffmann-La Roche, Basel, Switzerland.
(15)Product Development, Roche (China) Holding Ltd, Shanghai, China.

INTRODUCTION: In the Phase 3 IMbrave150 trial (NCT03434379), atezolizumab + 
bevacizumab demonstrated a clinically meaningful survival benefit over sorafenib 
in patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), including those 
with hepatitis B virus (HBV) or hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. We used 
IMbrave150 data to investigate the safety and risk of viral reactivation or 
flare in infected patients treated with atezolizumab + bevacizumab or sorafenib.
METHODS: Patients with unresectable HCC not previously treated with systemic 
therapy were randomized 2:1 to atezolizumab + bevacizumab or sorafenib. In this 
exploratory analysis, safety was continually evaluated, including for hepatic 
adverse events. Patients were monitored for HBV and HCV reactivation and flare 
at screening, the beginning of Cycles 5 and 9, and at treatment discontinuation.
RESULTS: Of 501 enrolled patients, 485 were included in the safety population; 
329 (68%) received atezolizumab + bevacizumab, and 156 (32%) received sorafenib. 
Overall, 150 (31%) and 58 (12%) patients had HBV and HCV infections, 
respectively. The safety profiles of atezolizumab + bevacizumab and sorafenib 
were consistent across patients, regardless of viral infection. Overall, hepatic 
serious adverse events occurred in 11% of patients receiving atezolizumab + 
bevacizumab and 8% receiving sorafenib. HBV or HCV reactivation occurred in 2% 
or 16% of atezolizumab + bevacizumab-treated patients, respectively, versus 7% 
or 14% with sorafenib. There were no instances of hepatitis flare with 
atezolizumab + bevacizumab.
CONCLUSIONS: Atezolizumab + bevacizumab had a similar hepatic safety profile in 
patients with and without HBV or HCV infection. Viral reactivation rates were 
similar between arms. Overall, these data support the use of atezolizumab + 
bevacizumab in patients with HCC and HBV or HCV infection without any special 
precaution.

Copyright © 2022 by The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000525499
PMCID: PMC9982337
PMID: 36872921

Conflict of interest statement: Chiun Hsu received research grants from Bristol 
Myers Squibb/ONO Pharmaceutical, F. Hoffmann-La Roche, and Ipsen and received 
honoraria from AstraZeneca, Bayer, Bristol Myers Squibb/ONO Pharmaceutical, 
Eisai, Eli Lilly and Company, Ipsen, Merck Serono, MSD, Novartis, F. Hoffmann-La 
Roche, and TTY Biopharm. Michel Ducreux reports a consulting or advisory role; 
has received honoraria from AstraZeneca, Bayer, F. Hoffmann-La Roche, Amgen, 
Pierre Fabre, Servier, Ipsen, Merck Serono, and Eli Lilly and Company; has been 
on a speakers bureau for Bayer, Ipsen, Lilly, Merck Serono, Amgen, and F. 
Hoffmann-La Roche; has received research funding from Bayer and F. Hoffmann-La 
Roche; and has received travel or accommodation expenses from Servier, Bayer, 
MSD, Ipsen, Eli Lilly and Company, and F. Hoffmann-La Roche. Andrew X. Zhu 
reports a consulting or advisory role for AstraZeneca, Bayer, Eisai, Exelixis, 
Gilead Sciences, Eli Lilly and Company, Merck, F. Hoffmann-La Roche/Genentech, 
and Sanofi and has received research funding from Bayer, Bristol Myers Squibb, 
Eli Lilly and Company, Merck, and Novartis; and is the associate editor for 
Liver Cancer. Shukui Qin declares no conflict of interests. Masafumi Ikeda is an 
advisor/board member at AstraZeneca, Eisai Co. Ltd., Eli Lilly Japan, and Takeda 
Pharmaceuticals; and received honoraria payment from Bayer, Bristol Myers 
Squibb, Chugai Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Eisai Co. Ltd., Eli Lilly Japan, MSD, 
and Takeda Pharmaceuticals; and is an editorial board member for Liver Cancer. 
Tae-You Kim reports grants and non-financial support from F. Hoffmann-La Roche, 
during the conduct of the study. Peter R. Galle reports a consulting or advisory 
role and received honoraria from AdaptImmune, AstraZeneca, Bayer, Bristol Myers 
Squibb, Eisai, Ipsen, Eli Lilly and Company, MSD, F. Hoffmann-La Roche, and 
Sirtex; has been on a speakers' bureau for AstraZeneca, Bayer, Bristol Myers 
Squibb, Eisai, Ipsen, Eli Lilly and Company, MSD, F. Hoffmann-La Roche, and 
Sirtex; has received research funding from Bayer and F. Hoffmann-La Roche; has 
provided expert testimony for Eli Lilly and Company; and has received travel or 
accommodation expenses from AstraZeneca, Bayer, Bristol Myers Squibb, Eisai, 
Ipsen, Eli Lilly and Company, and F. Hoffmann-La Roche. Richard S. Finn has 
served as a consultant with AstraZeneca, Bayer, CStone Pharmaceuticals, Eisai 
Co. Ltd., Eli Lilly, Merck, Pfizer, and F. Hoffmann-La Roche/Genentech; has 
received grant/research support to institution from Bristol Myers Squibb, Eisai 
Co. Ltd., Eli Lilly, Merck, Pfizer, and F. Hoffmann-La Roche/Genentech; and is 
an editorial board member for Liver Cancer. Ethan Chen is an employee of F. 
Hoffmann-La Roche. Ning Ma is an employee of F. Hoffmann-La Roche. Youyou Hu is 
an employee of Genentech. Lindong Li is an employee of Genentech. Ann-Li Cheng 
has served as a consultant with AstraZeneca, Bristol Myers Squibb, Eisai, Merck 
Serono, Novartis, Ono Pharmaceutical, Exelixis, Nucleix, IPSEN Innovation, Bayer 
Healthcare, Merck Sharp Dohme, Genentech, eiGene, CSR Pharma Group, F. 
Hoffmann-La Roche, and IQVIA; travel support from Bayer Yakuhin, 
Roche/Genentech, and IQVIA; reports receiving fees for serving on a speakers 
bureau from Bayer Yakuhin, Novartis, Eisai, Ono Pharmaceutical, and Amgen 
Taiwan; and is an associate editor for Liver Cancer.