1. Mater Today (Kidlington). 2023 Jan-Feb;62:33-50. doi: 
10.1016/j.mattod.2022.11.008. Epub 2022 Dec 8.

Overcoming pancreatic cancer immune resistance by codelivery of CCR2 antagonist 
using a STING-activating gemcitabine-based nanocarrier.

Wan Z(1), Huang H(1), West RE 3rd(2), Zhang M(1), Zhang B(1), Cai X(1), Zhang 
Z(1), Luo Z(1), Chen Y(1), Zhang Y(1), Xie W(1), Yang D(1), Nolin TD(2), Wang 
J(3), Li S(1), Sun J(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Pharmacogenetics, Department of Pharmaceutical Science, University 
of Pittsburgh School of Pharmacy, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(2)Department of Pharmacy and Therapeutics, University of Pittsburgh School of 
Pharmacy, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Computational Chemical Genomics 
Screening Center, University of Pittsburgh School of Pharmacy, Pittsburgh, PA, 
USA.

STING agonist has recently gained much attention for cancer treatment, but the 
therapeutic potential of STING agonist is hampered by STING-associated tumor 
immune resistance. In this work, guided by both bioinformatics and computer 
modeling, we rationally designed a "one stone hits two birds" nanoparticle-based 
strategy to simultaneously activate STING innate immune response while 
eliminating STING-associated immune resistance for the treatment of pancreatic 
ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). We discovered that the ultra-small sized micellar 
system based on gemcitabine-conjugated polymer (PGEM), which showed superior 
capacity of penetration in pancreatic tumor spheroid model and orthotopic tumor 
model, could serve as a novel "STING agonist". The activation of STING signaling 
in dendritic cells (DCs) by PGEM increased both innate nature killer (NK) and 
adaptive anti-tumor T cell response. However, activation of STING signaling by 
PGEM in tumor cells also drove the induction of chemokines CCL2 and CCL7, 
resulting in immune resistance by recruiting tumor associated macrophage (TAM) 
and myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs). Through the combination of 
computer modeling and experimental screening, we developed a dual delivery 
modality by incorporating a CCR2 (the receptor shared by both CCL2 and CCL7) 
antagonist PF-6309 (PF) into PGEM micellar system. Our studies demonstrated that 
PGEM/PF formulation significantly reduced pancreatic tumor burden and induced 
potent anti-tumor immunity through reversing the CCL2/CCL7-mediated 
immunosuppression. Moreover, PGEM/PF sensitized PDAC tumors to anti-PD-1 
therapy, leading to complete suppression/eradication of the tumors. Our work has 
shed light to the multi-faceted role of STING activation and provided a novel 
immunotherapy regimen to maximize the benefit of STING activation for PDAC 
treatment. In addition, this work paved a new way for bioinformatics and 
computer modeling-guided rational design of nanomedicine.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mattod.2022.11.008
PMCID: PMC10795849
PMID: 38239407

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: The authors declare the following 
competing financial interest(s): Song Li serves on the Chief Scientific Officer 
and holds equity in DUO Oncology. Jingjing Sun is an inventing consultant and 
equity holder in DUO Oncology.