1. J Pharm Sci. 2024 Jan;113(1):214-227. doi: 10.1016/j.xphs.2023.10.030. Epub
2023  Oct 30.

Systems pharmacodynamic model of combined gemcitabine and trabectedin in 
pancreatic cancer cells. Part I.Çô Effects on signal transduction pathways 
related to tumor growth.

Miao X(1), Shen S(2), Koch G(3), Wang X(4), Li J(5), Shen X(2), Qu J(6), 
Straubinger RM(7), Jusko WJ(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University at Buffalo, SUNY, Buffalo, 
NY, United States.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, School of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, 
University at Buffalo, SUNY, Buffalo, NY, United States; New York State Center 
of Excellence in Bioinformatics & Life Sciences, Buffalo, NY, United States.
(3)Pediatric Pharmacology and Pharmacometrics Research Center, University of 
Basel, Children's Hospital, Basel, Switzerland.
(4)New York State Center of Excellence in Bioinformatics & Life Sciences, 
Buffalo, NY, United States; Department of Cell Stress Biology, Roswell Park 
Cancer Institute, Buffalo, NY, United States.
(5)New York State Center of Excellence in Bioinformatics & Life Sciences, 
Buffalo, NY, United States.
(6)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University at Buffalo, SUNY, Buffalo, 
NY, United States; New York State Center of Excellence in Bioinformatics & Life 
Sciences, Buffalo, NY, United States.
(7)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University at Buffalo, SUNY, Buffalo, 
NY, United States; New York State Center of Excellence in Bioinformatics & Life 
Sciences, Buffalo, NY, United States; Department of Cell Stress Biology, Roswell 
Park Cancer Institute, Buffalo, NY, United States.
(8)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University at Buffalo, SUNY, Buffalo, 
NY, United States. Electronic address: wjjusko@buffalo.edu.

Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is often chemotherapy-resistant, and 
novel drug combinations would fill an unmet clinical need. Previously we 
reported synergistic cytotoxic effects of gemcitabine and trabectedin on 
pancreatic cancer cells, but underlying protein-level interaction mechanisms 
remained unclear. We employed a reliable, sensitive, comprehensive, 
quantitative, high-throughput IonStar proteomic workflow to investigate the time 
course of gemcitabine and trabectedin effects, alone and combined, upon 
pancreatic cancer cells. MiaPaCa-2 cells were incubated with vehicle (controls), 
gemcitabine, trabectedin, and their combinations over 72 hours. Samples were 
collected at intervals and analyzed using the label-free IonStar liquid 
chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) workflow to provide temporal 
quantification of protein expression for 4,829 proteins in four experimental 
groups. To characterize diverse signal transduction pathways, a comprehensive 
systems pharmacodynamic (SPD) model was developed. The analysis is presented in 
two parts. Here, Part I describes drug responses in cancer cell growth and 
migration pathways included in the full model: receptor tyrosine kinase- (RTK), 
integrin-, G-protein coupled receptor- (GPCR), and calcium-signaling pathways. 
The developed model revealed multiple underlying mechanisms of drug actions, 
provides insight into the basis of drug interaction synergism, and offers a 
scientific rationale for potential drug combination strategies.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.xphs.2023.10.030
PMCID: PMC11017371
PMID: 38498417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.