1. Ann Ital Chir. 2023 Nov 13;12(November):1-5.

Management of incidental pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor: a case report with 
literature review.

Spaziani E(1), Di Filippo AR(2), Spaziani M(2), Tamagnini GT(1), Francioni P(3), 
Salesi N(4), Picchio M(5), De Cesare A(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medico-Surgical Sciences and Biotechnologies, Polo Pontino, 
Sapienza University of Rome, Terracina, Italy.
(2)Unit of Anesthesia, Intensive Care and Pain Medicine, Sapienza University of 
Rome, Sant'Andrea University Hospital, Rome, Italy.
(3)Department of Radiology, AUSL Latina, "A. Fiorini" Hospital, Terracina, 
Italy.
(4)Department of Oncology, Hospital "S. Maria Goretti", Latina, Italy.
(5)Division of Surgery, ASL Roma 6, "P. Colombo" Hospital, Velletri, Italy.
(6)Department of Surgery "Pietro Valdoni", Sapienza University of Rome, Rome, 
Italy.

BACKGROUND: Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (PNETs) are rare and accounting for 
less than 5% of all pancreatic neoplasms. Their management depends on dimension 
of the lesion, main pancreatic duct (MPD) caliber, tumor malignancy features and 
evolutive potential.
CASE REPORT: Incidental finding of a lesion 1.2 cm wide of the pancreatic body, 
after contrast enhanced total body CT, in a 71 years old obese Caucasian male 
(BMI>25), during follow-up for cutaneous melanoma. The lesion was confirmed by 
MRI and 68-Ga pancreatic scintigraphy. EUS showed a second hypoecogenic and 
hypovascularized lesion compatible with pancreatic tail PNET. After FNB, Ki-67 
was below 3%.
DISCUSSION: 68-Gallium PET-CT was the preferred technique for the staging of the 
neuroendocrine neoplasm, for treatment planning, for the localization of the 
pancreatic lesion, excluding the presence of unknown extra-pancreatic lesions. 
EUS-FNB is indicated in patient with suspicion of PNET, although further 
investigation is needed to include it as a routine diagnostic examination.
CONCLUSION: Surgery is mandatory in case of PNETs larger than 2 cm, with MPD 
dilation, Ki-67>20% and compression symptoms.

PMID: 38919024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]