1. Liver Cancer. 2023 Jun 5;13(1):99-112. doi: 10.1159/000531377. eCollection
2024  Feb.

A Phase 2, Prospective, Multicenter, Single-Arm Trial of Transarterial 
Chemoembolization Therapy in Combination Strategy with Lenvatinib in Patients 
with Unresectable Intermediate-Stage Hepatocellular Carcinoma: TACTICS-L Trial.

Kudo M(1), Ueshima K(1), Saeki I(2), Ishikawa T(3), Inaba Y(4), Morimoto N(5), 
Aikata H(6), Tanabe N(7), Wada Y(8), Kondo Y(9), Tsuda M(10), Nakao K(11), Ito 
T(12), Hosaka T(13), Kawamura Y(14), Kuzuya T(15), Nojiri S(16), Ogawa C(17), 
Koga H(18), Hino K(19), Ikeda M(20), Moriguchi M(21), Hisai T(22), Yoshimura 
K(23), Furuse J(24), Arai Y(25).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Kindai University Faculty of 
Medicine, Osaka-Sayama, Japan.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Yamaguchi University Graduate 
School of Medicine, Ube, Japan.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology, Saiseikai Niigata Hospital, Niigata, Japan.
(4)Department of Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology, Aichi Cancer Center 
Hospital, Nagoya, Japan.
(5)Department of Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology, Jichi Medical 
University, Tochigi, Japan.
(6)Department of Gastroenterology, Hiroshima Prefectural Hospital, Hiroshima, 
Japan.
(7)Department of Gastroenterology, National Hospital Organisation Sendai Medical 
Center, Sendai, Japan.
(8)Department of Hepato-Biliary-Pancreatic Surgery, Clinical Research Institute, 
National Hospital Organization Kyushu Medical Center, Fukuoka, Japan.
(9)Department of Hepatology, Sendai Kousei Hospital, Sendai, Japan.
(10)Department of Gastroenterological Oncology, Hyogo Cancer Center, Akashi, 
Japan.
(11)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Nagasaki University Graduate 
School of Biomedical Sciences, Nagasaki, Japan.
(12)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Nagoya University Graduate 
School of Medicine, Nagoya, Japan.
(13)Department of Hepatology, Toranomon Hospital Kajigaya, Kawasaki, Japan.
(14)Department of Hepatology, Toranomon Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.
(15)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Fujita Health University, 
Toyoake, Japan.
(16)Department of Gastroenterology and Metabolism, Nagoya City University 
Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Nagoya, Japan.
(17)Department of Gastroenterology, Takamatsu Red Cross Hospital, Takamatsu, 
Japan.
(18)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, Kurume University 
School of Medicine, Kurume, Japan.
(19)Digestive Disease Center, Shunan Memorial Hospital, Kudamatsu, Japan.
(20)Department of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Oncology, National Cancer Center 
Hospital East, Kashiwa, Japan.
(21)Department of Molecular Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Kyoto Prefectural 
University of Medicine Graduate School of Medical Science, Kyoto, Japan.
(22)Eisai Co. Ltd., Oncology Department, Medical HQs, Tokyo, Japan.
(23)Medical Center for Translational and Clinical Research, Hiroshima University 
Hospital, Hiroshima, Japan.
(24)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Kanagawa Cancer Center, 
Yokohama, Japan.
(25)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, National Cancer Center Hospital, Tokyo, 
Japan.

INTRODUCTION: Transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) is the standard treatment 
for unresectable intermediate-stage hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), but 
recurrence after TACE is common. The present phase 2, prospective, multicenter, 
single-arm trial, the TACTICS-L trial, investigated the efficacy and safety of 
TACE plus lenvatinib (LEN), a drug that more strongly promotes vascular 
normalization and has a better objective response rate (ORR) than sorafenib 
(jRCTs031180074).
METHODS: Participants were patients with HCC who had not previously received 
systemic therapy, hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy, or immunotherapy and 
who were ineligible for resection or percutaneous ablation therapy. LEN was to 
be administered 14-21 days before the first TACE, stopped 2 days before TACE, 
and resumed 3 days after TACE. Key inclusion criteria were unresectable HCC, 
Child-Pugh A liver function, 0-2 prior TACE sessions, tumor size ≤10 cm, number 
of tumors ≤10, and ECOG performance status 0-1. Key exclusion criteria were 
vascular invasion and extrahepatic spread. The primary endpoint was 
progression-free survival (PFS) by RECICL, and secondary endpoints were time to 
untreatable progression, ORR, overall survival (OS), and safety.
RESULTS: A total of 62 HCC patients were enrolled in this trial. The median age 
was 72 years, 77.4% of patients were men, and 95.2% had PS 0. The primary 
endpoint of median PFS was 28.0 months (90% confidence interval [CI] 25.1-31.0) 
after a minimum 24 months of follow-up. The secondary endpoint of median OS was 
not reached (90% CI 35.5 months-NR). LEN-TACE achieved a high response rate and 
high complete response (CR) rate (4 weeks after the first TACE: ORR 79.0%, CR 
rate 53.2%; best response: ORR 88.7%, CR rate 67.7%) by RECICL. Exploratory 
subgroup analyses showed that the characteristics of responders/nonresponders 
(ORR and CR rate) were similar and that LEN-TACE would be effective in all 
subgroups, including the population in whom TACE alone would be less likely to 
be curative (e.g., patients with the non-simple nodular type or a high tumor 
burden). The relative dose intensity of LEN before the first TACE was important 
for achieving higher CR rate/ORR by LEN-TACE. No new safety concerns were 
observed.
CONCLUSION: The results of this trial provide encouraging evidence, supporting 
the efficacy and favorable safety profile of LEN-TACE in patients who are 
ineligible for locoregional therapy.

© 2023 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000531377
PMCID: PMC10857829
PMID: 38344448

Conflict of interest statement: Masatoshi Kudo: lecture: Eli Lilly, Bayer, 
Eisai, Chugai, Takeda, and AstraZeneca; grants: Gilead Sciences, Taiho, Otsuka, 
EA Pharma, AbbVie, Eisai, Chugai, and GE Healthcare; and advisory consulting: 
Chugai, Roche, AstraZeneca, and Eisai. Masatoshi Kudo is the Editor-in-Chief of 
Liver Cancer. Kazuomi Ueshima: consulting or advisory roles for Eisai, Lilly 
Japan, Pfizer, Chugai Pharma, and Takeda and honoraria from Bayer, Eisai, Lilly 
Japan, Chugai Pharma, Takeda, MSD, EA Pharma, Sumitomo Group, Taiho 
Pharmaceutical, and Kowa. Issei Saeki: honoraria from Eisai and research funding 
from Chugai Pharma. Toru Ishikawa, Nobukazu Tanabe, Yoshiyuki Wada, Masahiro 
Tsuda, Kazuhiko Nakao, Shunsuke Nojiri, Junji Furuse, Keisuke Hino, Chikara 
Ogawa, and Kenichi Yoshimura: no conflict of interest. Yoshitaka Inaba: Eisai, 
AstraZeneca, and Chugai. Naoki Morimoto: research funding from Eisai and AbbVie 
and honoraria from Eisai, AbbVie, and Chugai Pharma. Hiroshi Aikata: honoraria 
from Eisai and research funding from Eisai. Yasuteru Kondo: consulting or 
advisory roles for Terumo, Toray Medical, Hanaco Medical, UTM, Japan Lifeline, 
Century Medical, and Covidien. Takanori Ito: honoraria (speaker fee) from 
Chugai. Tetsuya Hosaka: honoraria from Gilead Sciences. Yusuke Kawamura: 
honoraria from Eisai, Chugai Pharma, and Terumo. Teiji Kuzuya: honoraria from 
Eisai, Takeda Yakuhin, Eli Lilly Japan, and Chugai Pharmaceutical. Hironori 
Koga: speaker honoraria from Eisai and Chugai Pharma and research grants from 
Shionogi, Daiichi Sankyo, and Chugai Pharma. Masafumi Ikeda: consulting or 
advisory roles for Eisai, Novartis, Chugai Pharma, Ono Pharmaceutical, 
AstraZeneca, Servier, and Takeda and honoraria from Taiho Pharmaceutical, Eisai, 
Lilly Japan, Chugai Pharma, AstraZeneca, and Servier. Michihisa Moriguchi: 
consulting or advisory roles for Bayer Yakuhin, Chugai Pharma, Eisai, and Lilly 
Japan and honoraria from Bayer Yakuhin, Chugai Pharma, Eisai, Lilly Japan, 
Takeda, and MSD. Takashi Hisai: employee of Eisai Co., Ltd. Yasuaki Arai: 
royalties from Sumitomo Bakelite and honoraria from Merit Medical Systems, Canon 
Medical Systems, Terumo International Systems, Sumitomo Bakelite, Boston 
Scientific, Japan Lifeline, Taiho Pharmaceutical, Guerbet Japan, AstraZeneca 
plc, Cosmotec, and Toray.