1. Imeta. 2023 Jul 16;2(3):e127. doi: 10.1002/imt2.127. eCollection 2023 Aug.

Immune-related interaction perturbation networks unravel biological peculiars 
and clinical significance of glioblastoma.

Liu Z(1)(2)(3), Xu Y(4), Wang Y(5), Weng S(1), Xu H(1), Ren Y(6), Guo C(7), Liu 
L(8), Zhang Z(9), Han X(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Interventional Radiology The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Zhengzhou University Zhengzhou China.
(2)Interventional Institute of Zhengzhou University Zhengzhou China.
(3)Interventional Treatment and Clinical Research Center of Henan Province 
Zhengzhou China.
(4)Department of Neurology The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou University 
Zhengzhou China.
(5)Department of Clinical Laboratory The Third Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou 
University Zhengzhou China.
(6)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine The First Affiliated 
Hospital of Zhengzhou University Zhengzhou China.
(7)Department of Endovascular Surgery The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou 
University Zhengzhou China.
(8)Department of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery The First Affiliated 
Hospital of Zhengzhou University Zhengzhou China.
(9)Department of Neurosurgery The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou 
University Zhengzhou China.

The immune system is an interacting network of plentiful molecules that could 
better characterize the relationship between immunity and cancer. This study 
aims to investigate the behavioral patterns of immune-related interaction 
perturbation networks in glioblastoma. An immune-related 
interaction-perturbation framework was introduced to characterize four 
heterogeneous subtypes using RNA-seq data of TCGA/CGGA glioblastoma tissues and 
GTEx normal brain tissues. The stability and robustness of the four subtypes 
were validated in public datasets and our in-house cohort. In the four subtypes, 
C1 was an inflammatory subtype with high immune infiltration, low tumor purity, 
and potential response to immunotherapy; C2, an invasive subtype, was featured 
with dismal prognosis, telomerase reverse transcriptase promoter mutations, 
moderate levels of immunity, and stromal constituents, as well as sensitivity to 
receptor tyrosine kinase signaling inhibitors; C3 was a proliferative subtype 
with high tumor purity, immune-desert microenvironment, sensitivity to 
phosphatidylinositol 3'-kinase signaling inhibitor and DNA replication 
inhibitors, and potential resistance to immunotherapy; C4, a synaptogenesis 
subtype with the best prognosis, exhibited high synaptogenesis-related gene 
expression, prevalent isocitrate dehydrogenase mutations, and potential 
sensitivity to radiotherapy and chemotherapy. Overall, this study provided an 
attractive platform from the perspective of immune-related interaction 
perturbation networks, which might advance the tailored management of 
glioblastoma.

© 2023 The Authors. iMeta published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on 
behalf of iMeta Science.

DOI: 10.1002/imt2.127
PMCID: PMC10989959
PMID: 38867932

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.