1. Liver Cancer. 2023 Nov 28;13(4):401-412. doi: 10.1159/000535501. eCollection 
2024 Aug.

Impact of Bevacizumab Being Skipped due to Adverse Events of Special Interest 
for Bevacizumab in Patients with Unresectable Hepatocellular Carcinoma Treated 
with Atezolizumab plus Bevacizumab: An Exploratory Analysis of the Phase III 
IMbrave150 Study.

Kudo M(1), Tsuchiya K(2), Shao YY(3), Finn RS(4), Galle PR(5), Ducreux M(6), 
Cheng AL(7), Yamashita T(8), Koga H(9), Take R(10), Yamada K(10), Asakawa T(10), 
Nakagawa Y(10), Ikeda M(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Kindai University Faculty of 
Medicine, Osaka, Japan.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Musashino Red Cross Hospital, 
Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Department of Oncology, National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.
(4)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Department of Medicine, Jonsson 
Comprehensive Cancer Center, Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, CA, 
USA.
(5)Department of Internal Medicine, University Medical Center Mainz, Mainz, 
Germany.
(6)Department of Medical Oncology, Gustave Roussy Cancer Center, Paris-Saclay 
University, Villejuif, France.
(7)Department of Oncology, National Taiwan University Cancer Center and National 
Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.
(8)Department of Gastroenterology, Kanazawa University Hospital, Kanazawa, 
Japan.
(9)Department of Gastroenterology, Kurume University Hospital, Kurume, Japan.
(10)Chugai Pharmaceutical Ltd, Tokyo, Japan.
(11)Department of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Oncology, National Cancer Center 
Hospital East, Kashiwa, Japan.

INTRODUCTION: The phase III IMbrave150 study established atezolizumab + 
bevacizumab as the global standard of care in patients with unresectable 
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). This exploratory analysis examined the impact of 
bevacizumab interruption due to bevacizumab adverse events of special interest 
(AESIs).
METHODS: Patients in IMbrave150 who were randomized to atezolizumab + 
bevacizumab and received treatment for ≥6 months (to reduce immortal time bias) 
were included in group A-1 if bevacizumab had ever been skipped due to 
bevacizumab AESIs or to group A-2 otherwise. Efficacy analyses included overall 
survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) by whether bevacizumab was 
skipped (group A-1 vs. A-2). PFS was evaluated per independent review facility 
(IRF)-assessed Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours (RECIST) version 
1.1 and HCC-modified RECIST (IRF-HCC mRECIST). Safety was also evaluated.
RESULTS: Of the 210 patients who received ≥6 months of atezolizumab + 
bevacizumab, 69 were assigned to group A-1 and 141 to A-2. At data cutoff 
(August 20, 2020), hazard ratio (HR) for OS was 1.04 (95% CI: 0.64, 1.69) for 
group A-1 versus A-2. HR for PFS was 1.07 (95% CI: 0.74, 1.55) per IRF-assessed 
RECIST 1.1 and 1.10 (95% CI: 0.76, 1.59; 15.5 vs. 9.7 months) per IRF-HCC 
mRECIST for group A-1 versus A-2. Safety profiles for atezolizumab and 
bevacizumab were largely similar between groups. More group A-1 patients had 
grade 3/4 adverse events. A separate analysis investigating the impact of 
immortal time bias in patients who received ≥3 months of atezolizumab + 
bevacizumab supported the appropriateness of the ≥6-month landmark analysis.
DISCUSSION/CONCLUSION: Efficacy was similar between patients who skipped 
bevacizumab due to bevacizumab AESIs and those who did not. Although this 
comparison was nonrandomized and exploratory, results suggest that skipping 
bevacizumab due to bevacizumab AESIs did not considerably impact the efficacy 
and safety of atezolizumab + bevacizumab.

© 2023 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000535501
PMCID: PMC11305667
PMID: 39114762

Conflict of interest statement: Masatoshi Kudo reports the following conflicts 
of interest: honoraria payment to self from Bayer, Chugai Pharmaceutical Co. 
Ltd., Eli Lilly, Eisai, and Takeda; research funding to institution from AbbVie, 
Chugai Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., EA Pharma, Eisai, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, GE 
HealthCare, Gilead Sciences, Otsuka, Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma, Taiho, and 
Takeda; and Editor in Chief of Liver Cancer. Kaoru Tsuchiya reports the 
following conflicts of interest: advisory/consultancy fees to self from Chugai 
Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. and Eisai; speakers bureau participation for Chugai 
Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Eisai, Eli Lilly, and Takeda; and research funding to 
institution from F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. Yu-Yun Shao reports the following 
conflicts of interest: honoraria from AstraZeneca, Bayer, Bristol Myers Squibb, 
Eisai, Eli Lilly, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Ipsen, Merck, and Ono. Richard S. 
Finn reports the following conflicts of interest: consulting fees to self from 
AstraZeneca, Bayer, CStone Pharmaceuticals, Eisai, Eli Lilly, Exelixis, F. 
Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., Hengrui, Merck, and Pfizer; research funding to 
institution from Adaptimmune, Bristol Myers Squibb, Eisai, Eli Lilly, Merck, 
Pfizer, and F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd.; and Editorial Board Member of Liver 
Cancer. Peter R. Galle reports the following conflicts of interest: consulting 
fees to self from Adaptimmune, AstraZeneca, Bayer, Boston Scientific, Bristol 
Myers Squibb, Eisai, Eli Lilly, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., Guerbet, Ipsen, Merck 
Sharp & Dohme, and Sirtex Medical; honoraria payment to self from Adaptimmune, 
AstraZeneca, Bayer, Boston Scientific, Bristol Myers Squibb, Eisai, Eli Lilly, 
F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., Guerbet, Ipsen, Merck Sharp & Dohme, and Sirtex 
Medical; advisory fees to self from Adaptimmune, AstraZeneca, Bayer, Boston 
Scientific, Bristol Myers Squibb, Eisai, Eli Lilly, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., 
Guerbet, Ipsen, Merck Sharp & Dohme, and Sirtex Medical; and research funding to 
institution from Bayer and F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. Michel Ducreux reports the 
following conflicts of interest: honoraria, consulting fees, or advisory fees to 
self from Amgen, AstraZeneca, Bayer, Eli Lilly, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., 
Ipsen, Merck Serono, Pierre Fabre, and Servier; travel support from Bayer, Eli 
Lilly, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., Ipsen, Merck Sharp & Dohme, and Servier; 
speakers bureau participation for Amgen, Bayer, Eli Lilly, F. Hoffmann-La Roche 
Ltd., Ipsen, and Merck Serono; and research funding to institution from Bayer 
and F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. Ann-Lii Cheng reports the following conflicts of 
interest: research funding to institution from F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. Tatsuya 
Yamashita reports the following conflicts of interest: speakers bureau 
participation for Bayer and Chugai Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. and research funding 
to institution from F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. Hironori Koga reports the 
following conflicts of interest: research funding to institution from AbbVie, 
Chugai Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Daiichi Sankyo, and F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. 
Ryosuke Take, Kyoko Yamada, Takashi Asakawa, and Yuki Nakagawa reports the 
following conflicts of interest: employment by Chugai Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. 
Masafumi Ikeda reports the following conflicts of interest: honoraria to self 
from Bayer, Chugai Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Eisai, Eli Lilly, and Takeda; 
advisory/consulting fees to self from Chugai Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Eisai, Eli 
Lilly, Merck Sharp & Dohme, and Takeda; and research funding to institution from 
Bayer, Bristol Myers Squibb, Chugai Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Eisai, Eli Lilly, 
F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., Merck Sharp & Dohme, and Takeda.