1. Br J Surg. 2024 Nov 27;111(12):znae296. doi: 10.1093/bjs/znae296.

Continuous preperitoneal versus thoracic epidural analgesia in open 
pancreatoduodenectomy: randomized clinical trial.

Lee M(1)(2), Jung JY(3)(4), Han Y(1), Chae YS(1), Yun WG(1), Jung HS(1), Cho 
YJ(1), Choi YJ(5), Lee HJ(3), Kwon W(1), Kim WH(3), Jang JY(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery and Cancer Research Institute, Seoul National 
University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(2)Department of Surgery, Division of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery, Asan 
Medical Centre, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(3)Department of Anaesthesiology and Pain Medicine, Seoul National University 
Hospital, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(4)Department of Anaesthesiology and Pain Medicine, Konyang University Hospital, 
Konyang University College of Medicine, Daejeon, Korea.
(5)Department of Surgery, Korea University Anam Hospital, Korea University 
College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

BACKGROUND: Thoracic epidural analgesia (TEA), once the standard for pain 
management in major abdominal operations, is associated with postoperative 
complications, making preperitoneal continuous wound infiltration (CWI) a 
promising alternative. This study aimed to compare the effectiveness of CWI and 
TEA in managing postoperative pain after open pancreatoduodenectomy.
METHODS: In a single-centre, randomized, open-label non-inferiority trial, adult 
patients undergoing elective open pancreatoduodenectomy were assigned to either 
CWI or TEA for pain management. The primary outcomes were mean pain scores at 
rest on the first 3 postoperative days (PODs), using an 11-point numeric rating 
scale, with a non-inferiority margin of 1 point or less. Secondary outcomes 
included pain scores at rest and during coughing on PODs 1, 2, and 3; total 
opioid consumption; incidence of postoperative complications; quality of 
postoperative recovery; and duration of hospital stay.
RESULTS: Among the 134 patients analysed (CWI 70, TEA 64), CWI was non-inferior 
to TEA in terms of mean pain scores at rest (mean difference -0.13, 95% c.i. 
-0.72 to 0.47). Additionally, CWI demonstrated superior pain relief at rest and 
higher-quality recovery scores on POD 3. Compared with CWI, TEA was associated 
with significantly decreased total opioid consumption and shortened time to the 
first passage of flatus, but a higher incidence of postoperative hypotension. No 
other outcome measures showed significant differences between the two groups.
CONCLUSION: CWI was non-inferior to TEA during the early postoperative period, 
and has emerged as a favourable alternative to TEA, offering better pain relief 
and enhanced recovery on POD 3. Registration number: NCT04375826 
(http://www.clinicaltrials.gov).

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of BJS 
Foundation Ltd. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact 
reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other 
permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions 
link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/bjs/znae296
PMID: 39602790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]