1. Cancer Lett. 2024 Nov 22;609:217327. doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2024.217327. Online
 ahead of print.

Local ablation disrupts immune evasion in pancreatic cancer.

Musiu C(1), Adamo A(1), Caligola S(2), Agostini A(3), Frusteri C(1), Lupo F(4), 
Boschi F(4), Busato A(5), Poffe O(1), Anselmi C(1), Vella A(1), Wang T(1), Dusi 
S(2), Piro G(3), Carbone C(3), Tortora G(6), Marzola P(3), D'Onofrio M(7), Crinò 
SF(8), Corbo V(4), Scarpa A(9), Salvia R(10), Malleo G(10), Lionetto G(10), 
Sartoris S(1), Ugel S(11), Bassi C(4), Bronte V(2), Paiella S(10), De Sanctis 
F(12).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Section of Immunology, University of Verona Hospital 
Trust, Verona, Italy.
(2)Veneto Institute of Oncology IOV-IRCCS, Padua, Italy.
(3)Medical Oncology, Policlinico Universitario A. Gemelli IRCCS, Rome, Italy.
(4)Department of Engineering for Innovative Medicine University of Verona 
Hospital Trust, Verona, Italy.
(5)Assessment Department Aptuit S.r.l., an Evotec Company, Verona, Italy.
(6)Medical Oncology, Policlinico Universitario A. Gemelli IRCCS, Rome, Italy; 
Department of Translational Medicine, Catholic University of the Sacred Heart, 
Rome, Italy.
(7)Department of Diagnostics and Public Health, Radiology Section, University of 
Verona Hospital Trust, Verona, Italy.
(8)Department of Surgery, Dentistry, Paediatrics and Gynaecology, 
Gastroenterology and Digestive Endoscopy Unit, Pancreas Institute, University of 
Verona Hospital Trust, Verona, Italy.
(9)Department of Diagnostics and Public Health, Pathological Anatomy Section, 
University of Verona Hospital Trust, Verona, Italy.
(10)Department of Surgery, Dentistry, Paediatrics and Gynaecology, General and 
Pancreatic Surgery Unit, Pancreas Institute, University of Verona Hospital 
Trust, Verona, Italy.
(11)Department of Medicine, Section of Immunology, University of Verona Hospital 
Trust, Verona, Italy. Electronic address: stefano.ugel@univr.it.
(12)Department of Medicine, Section of Immunology, University of Verona Hospital 
Trust, Verona, Italy. Electronic address: francesco.desanctis@univr.it.

BACKGROUND: Pancreatic cancer (PC) is characterised by late diagnosis, tumour 
heterogeneity, and a peculiar immunosuppressive microenvironment, leading to 
poor clinical outcomes. Local ablative techniques have been proposed to treat 
unresectable PC patients, although their impact on activating the host immune 
system and overcoming resistance to immunotherapy remains elusive.
METHODS: We dissected the immune-modulatory abilities triggered by local 
ablation in mouse and human PC models and human specimens, integrating 
phenotypic and molecular technologies with functional assays.
RESULTS: Local ablation treatment performed in mice bearing orthotopic syngeneic 
PC tumours triggered tumour necrosis and a short-term inflammatory process 
characterised by the prompt increase of HMGB1 plasma levels, coupled with an 
enhanced amount of circulating and tumour infiltrating myeloid cells and 
increased MHCII expression in splenic myeloid antigen-presenting cells. Local 
ablation synergised with immunotherapy to restrict tumour progression and 
improved the survival of PC-bearing mice by evoking a T lymphocyte-dependent 
anti-tumour immune response. By integrating spatial transcriptomics with 
histological techniques, we pinpointed how combination therapy could reshape TME 
towards an anti-tumour milieu characterised by the preferential entrance and 
colocalization of activated T lymphocytes and myeloid cells endowed with antigen 
presentation features instead of T regulatory lymphocytes and CD206-expressing 
tumour-associated macrophages. In addition, treatment-dependent TME 
repolarization extended to neoplastic cells, promoting a shift from squamous to 
a more differentiated classical phenotype. Finally, we validated the immune 
regulatory properties induced by local ablation in PC patients and identified an 
association of the short-term treatment-dependent increase of neutrophils, NLR 
and HMGB1 with a longer time to progression.
CONCLUSION: Therefore, local ablation might overcome the current limitations of 
immunotherapy in PC.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canlet.2024.217327
PMID: 39580047

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: VB reports personal fees from 
Codiak BioSciences and IO Biotech ApS outside of the submitted work. SP receives 
consultancy honoraria from AlphaTau Medical. The other authors declare no 
competing interests.