1. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2024 Nov 22;206:104573. doi: 
10.1016/j.critrevonc.2024.104573. Online ahead of print.

Association of epigenetic landscapes with heterogeneity and plasticity in 
pancreatic cancer.

Manoukian P(1), Kuhnen LC(2), van Laarhoven HWM(3), Bijlsma MF(4).

Author information:
(1)Amsterdam UMC location University of Amsterdam, Center for Experimental and 
Molecular Medicine, Laboratory of Experimental Oncology and 
Radiobiology, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Cancer Center Amsterdam, Cancer 
Biology, Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Electronic address: 
p.manoukian@amsterdamumc.nl.
(2)Amsterdam UMC location University of Amsterdam, Center for Experimental and 
Molecular Medicine, Laboratory of Experimental Oncology and 
Radiobiology, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(3)Cancer Center Amsterdam, Cancer Biology, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; 
Amsterdam UMC location University of Amsterdam, Department of Medical 
Oncology, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(4)Amsterdam UMC location University of Amsterdam, Center for Experimental and 
Molecular Medicine, Laboratory of Experimental Oncology and 
Radiobiology, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Cancer Center Amsterdam, Cancer 
Biology, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.

Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) has a poor prognosis. Due to a lack of 
clear symptoms, patients often present with advanced disease, with limited 
clinical intervention options. The high mortality rate of PDAC is, however, also 
a result of several other factors that include a high degree of heterogeneity 
and treatment resistant cellular phenotypes. Molecular subtypes of PDAC have 
been identified that are thought to represent cellular phenotypes at the tissue 
level. The epigenetic landscape is an important factor that dictates these 
subtypes. Permissive epigenetic landscapes serve as drivers of molecular 
heterogeneity and cellular plasticity in developing crypts as well as 
metaplastic lesions. Drawing parallels with other cancers, we hypothesize that 
epigenetic permissiveness is a potential driver of cellular plasticity in PDAC. 
In this review will explore the epigenetic alterations that underlie PDAC cell 
states and relate them to cellular plasticity from other contexts. In doing so, 
we aim to highlight epigenomic drivers of PDAC heterogeneity and plasticity and, 
with that, offer some insight to guide pre-clinical research.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2024.104573
PMID: 39581245

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest MFB has 
received research funding from Celgene, Frame Therapeutics, and Lead Pharma, and 
has acted as a consultant to Servier, Olympus and Wholomics. HWML Consultant or 
advisory role: Amphera, Anocca, Astellas, AstraZeneca, Beigene, Boehringer, 
Daiichy-Sankyo, Dragonfly, MSD, Myeloid, Servier Research funding, medication 
supply, and/or other research support: Auristone, Incyte, Merck, ORCA, Servier. 
Speaker role: Astellas, Beigene, Benecke, BMS, Daiichy-Sankyo, JAAP, Medtalks, 
Novartis, Springer, Travel Congress Management B.V. JWW Consultant or advisory 
role: MSD, Servier, Astra Zeneca, Research funding: MSD, Nordic, Servier. 
Speaker role: MSD, Servier. None of these parties participated in the design or 
drafting of the manuscript.