1. Cell Regen. 2024 Nov 28;13(1):26. doi: 10.1186/s13619-024-00207-9.

TGFβ family signaling in human stem cell self-renewal and differentiation.

Liu S(#)(1), Ren J(#)(2), Hu Y(3), Zhou F(4), Zhang L(5)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)International Biomed-X Research Center, Key Laboratory of Precision Diagnosis 
and Treatment for Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Tumor of Zhejiang Province, 
Second Affiliated Hospital of Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Zhejiang 
University, Hangzhou, China.
(2)The First Affiliated Hospital, MOE Basic Research and Innovation Center for 
the Targeted Therapeutics of Solid Tumors, Institute of Biomedical Innovation, 
School of Basic Medical Sciences, Jiangxi Medical College, Nanchang University, 
Nanchang, China.
(3)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, 450052, China.
(4)The First Affiliated Hospital, the Institutes of Biology and Medical 
Sciences, Suzhou Medical College, Soochow University, Suzhou, China. 
zhoufangfang@suda.edu.cn.
(5)International Biomed-X Research Center, Key Laboratory of Precision Diagnosis 
and Treatment for Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Tumor of Zhejiang Province, 
Second Affiliated Hospital of Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Zhejiang 
University, Hangzhou, China. L_Zhang@zju.edu.cn.
(6)The First Affiliated Hospital, MOE Basic Research and Innovation Center for 
the Targeted Therapeutics of Solid Tumors, Institute of Biomedical Innovation, 
School of Basic Medical Sciences, Jiangxi Medical College, Nanchang University, 
Nanchang, China. L_Zhang@zju.edu.cn.
(7)MOE Key Laboratory of Biosystems Homeostasis & Protection and Innovation 
Center for Cell Signaling Network, Life Sciences Institute, Zhejiang University, 
Hangzhou, 310058, China. L_Zhang@zju.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Human stem cells are undifferentiated cells with the capacity for self-renewal 
and differentiation into distinct cell lineages, playing important role in the 
development and maintenance of diverse tissues and organs. The microenvironment 
of stem cell provides crucial factors and components that exert significant 
influence over the determination of cell fate. Among these factors, cytokines 
from the transforming growth factor β (TGFβ) superfamily, including TGFβ, bone 
morphogenic protein (BMP), Activin and Nodal, have been identified as important 
regulators governing stem cell maintenance and differentiation. In this review, 
we present a comprehensive overview of the pivotal roles played by TGFβ 
superfamily signaling in governing human embryonic stem cells, somatic stem 
cells, induced pluripotent stem cells, and cancer stem cells. Furthermore, we 
summarize the latest research and advancements of TGFβ family in various cancer 
stem cells and stem cell-based therapy, discussing their potential clinical 
applications in cancer therapy and regeneration medicine.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13619-024-00207-9
PMID: 39604763

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests.